K820x#14complaint
Mr F has multiple  concerns  with St Andrews  Insurance  Plc (StAIP) about his home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr F complained to StAIP about multiple administrative errors he considered  had occurred 
under his home insurance policy and about the cost of the policy.  
Within Mr Fs correspondence to StAIP, and then subsequently this service,  Mr F has gone 
into detail about  why he is unhappy  about  these issues. Mr F has also explained the possible 
effects or consequences  that he considers each error could have.  
Mr F, to resolve matters,  wanted StAIP to refund him all the premiums he has paid under the 
policy. Mr F also wanted StAIP to pay him £1,000 for each error.
In April 2018, StAIP wrote  to Mr F and as a gesture of goodwill   it offered him £2,035.00 to 
resolve his complaint. £1,960.00 was for Mr Fs concerns  about  the cost of the policy, £50 
for the administrative concerns and £25 for the delay  in answering the complaint.
StAIP also ensured that in the future, it would use Mr Fs full name (including his middle  
name), the full address,  and that all correspondence sent would  be in large font, as Mr F had 
requested.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought StAIPs offer to put things right was 
fair.
Mr F disagreed and as the matter hasnt been  resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicator and broadly for the same reasons. I think 
StAIPs offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to clarify to Mr F, that the complaint is against StAIP  because  it is the 
underwriter of the policy and it is therefore  responsible for this complaint. 
Turning to Mr Fs concerns:
Mr F has written in great  detail about  his complaint. Id like to assure him that I have carefully 
reviewed and considered  all of his testimony, correspondence and complaint points even if I 
havent addressed  each  point individually.
the administrative concerns / requests
Ref: DRN91629912Sometimes, as with anything, things can go wrong.  Administrative  errors can and do 
happen. But it doesnt automatically mean StAIP was deliberately trying to treat Mr F 
unfairly. 
When things go wrong,  I would expect to see that a business puts things right as soon as 
possible. Just because something  has gone wrong it doesnt mean that a consumer is 
automatically entitled to compensation. But if a consumer  has been inconvenienced and any 
errors have  caused  trouble, or unnecessary pain and suffering, I would expect a business to 
take that into account, and where appropriate  offer some compensation.
The administrative errors Mr F has complained  about, such as his name, address and 
missing leaflet have  all been rectified. 
With regards to Mr Fs name, address and request to have all communication  in a larger size 
font, I see that StAIP has complied with Mr Fs specific requests. 
In light of the above, given what happened and what Mr F wanted administratively, I think 
StAIP has put things  right and has offered and paid appropriate compensation. 
 
Mr F has told us that having some  of these details wrong could have serious  consequences.  
I understand Mr Fs concerns, but I would like to assure him they wouldnt have such serious  
consequences as he thinks. 
For example, not having his full name (including his middle name)  and complete address 
doesnt mean the policy wouldnt  be valid, or that it is an unlawful contract  and that he 
wouldnt be entitled to claim. Mr F had entered into an agreement  with StAIP  for the policy,  
had paid for the policy and would be covered under the policy should he have needed  to 
claim.
With regards to Mr Fs concerns that part of his address wasnt written  down, possibly 
affecting his premium quotation  StAIP did have his full address including house  number,  
road, city and postcode.  So its assessment  of Mr Fs property and risk, and the premium it 
charged, wouldnt be affected  as Mr Fs property details and location were known. 
So, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint on these points and StAIP  doesnt need  to anything 
further.
sending the renewal quote  30 days before renewal
Mr F says StAIP sent the insurance renewal documentation only 30 days  prior to his renewal 
date. Mr F thinks sending  the renewal documentation this close to his renewal date is unfair.  
Mr F says it pressures  him into renewing  with StAIP and doesnt  leave him with enough time 
to look around for an alternative policy with a different  provider.
Insurers / underwriters  typically send renewal  documents to consumers around  three  to four 
weeks before their renewal date  so StAIP isnt doing anything differently.
If StAIP was to send  its insurance  renewal  quote  documentation to Mr F, say three months  
before the actual  renewal date, and something  changed in Mr Fs circumstances in-between 
or prior to renewal,  the quote would  no longer  be accurate. Sending  the renewal quote 
30 days before, in my opinion, strikes  a fair balance that brings  the renewal to the 
consumers attention and also allows them enough time to shop around should  they wish.  
Ref: DRN91629913I also note that going  forward StAIP has offered to extend the 30 days notice for Mr Fs 
renewals, if he wishes. This seems  fair and Mr F should contact StAIP to arrange this if he 
wants.
the increases  in premiums on Mr Fs home insurance
Mr F is unhappy  with the increases in premiums  on his home insurance.
I would like to explain I dont have  the power  to tell a business what its insurance should 
have cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  and 
thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether StAIP has treated Mr F fairly throughout the period  he held his 
insurance policy. 
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mr F fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair. And in this case, whether I think what StAIP has offered  is fair.
When Mr F took out his policy in 2009, it cost £374.60 for the year.
 
I understand this included  an introductory  discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may 
well initially be priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think  its unfair for an insurer  to 
seek to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years. 
But it appears that Mr F didnt engage  with StAIP about the renewal quotes  he was given 
each year, and his premium continued to increase  each year. By 2017 Mr Fs premium was 
£760.05.
If StAIP should have  realised Mr F wasnt the type of person who shopped around for 
cheaper insurance regularly, and if it increased  the price  just because he didnt engage at 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
To put things right in this type of situation I would look at what point  StAIP should have 
reasonably known that Mr F wasnt engaging  with his renewals and see if he had been 
treated unfairly  from this point. Having looked at Mr Fs journey I would say this point would  
be 2012. I would then ask StAIP to keep  Mr Fs yearly home insurance premium  at 2012s 
price and pay him the difference he paid over that for each subsequent year thereafter. 
StAIP says that if it applied this method Mr F would be entitled  to around £1,000.00. But 
StAIP says it offered Mr F £1,960 for any concerns  he had about the cost of his policy, which  
is more than what I would tell it to do. So I think StAIPs offer of £1,960.00 is fair.
It makes  sure Mr F hasnt lost out if StAIP did increase the price just because he didnt  
engage at each renewal in the later years  of the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc has offered  and paid fair compensation and doesnt need  to do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN91629914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162991