K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that esure  Insurance Limited  didnt  offer him enough for his written-off car 
when he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
 
background
Mr P says esure  should  have paid him the average of the values quoted for similar cars to 
his in three of the national trade guides. Instead, esure disregarded the highest  of the three  
prices quoted, as it thought it was out of line with the other two. It rounded up the sum it was 
prepared to offer Mr P to £3,900. He said esure also agreed to pay him £200 for a service  
package. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint. He checked the valuations esure had 
used and looked at the valuation set out in a fourth trade guide we also use. It was higher 
than the top valuation in the other three  guides.  But he thought  it was reasonable for esure  
to base its settlement  sum on the two closest of all the valuations  which  were  the two 
lowest ones. He thought they were more likely to give an accurate indication  of the cars pre-
accident market  value. The investigator  checked  that esure had agreed to pay Mr P an extra 
£200 for the service package, which meant  hed get £4,100 altogether  to settle  his claim.
Mr P said the fourth trade guide  valuation showed  that the sum esure had offered him was 
too low. And he said the difference between the middle and the highest of the original three  
trade guide valuations wasnt large  enough  to merit disregarding the highest  one. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. My provisional 
findings were as follows:
Mr P doesnt  disagree with the practice of using the national  trade  guides to establish what  a 
vehicles likely pre-accident market value is. We think its the best way to show what a car is 
likely to be worth, and what an insurer can reasonably be expected  to pay for it. We also 
think if one of the valuations is out of line with the others, it can usually be disregarded. 
But in looking at whether an insurers offer is fair, we consider the valuations  set out in four 
trade guides rather than three. I dont think esures correct  in saying that when  it made its 
decision we werent  using the fourth trade guide.  
From what  Ive seen, the fourth guide  doesnt  always set out a higher valuation than other 
guides. But in this case, its valuation  is the highest.  Using all four guides means there are 
two higher valuations that are reasonably close together. The two lower  ones are also close 
together. The difference between the lower valuations is only £81. The difference between 
the higher ones is £211. But I dont think its fair to disregard the two higher valuations 
altogether. In my view,  it would be fair either  to take the average of the three  lower  
valuations (£4,050)  or the average between  the higher two and the lower two valuations 
(around £4,200).  
As esure agreed to pay Mr P £200 for a service package, that brought  its total settlement  
offer up to £4,100. Mr P thinks  the service package should be dealt with separately from the 
valuation. I think thats right.  esure  didnt have  to pay Mr P anything  for it, as the service 
package is an uninsured loss  so it isnt covered by the policy. Although the accident 
wasnt Mr Ps fault - in that another driver drove  into his car - the other driver couldnt be 
Ref: DRN95610842traced. So Mr P wouldnt have been able to claim for the service  package as an uninsured 
loss on the other drivers policy. 
Our role is to consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably.  I think  it was 
more than fair for esure to decide to pay Mr P for the service package. But I dont think  that 
means it shouldnt have to pay him a fair sum for the base value of his car. 
Taking everything into account   including esures offer for the service package - I think  it 
would be reasonable for it to pay Mr P the average of the three lower guides,  which  is 
£4,050. If its already  paid the proposed settlement to Mr P, it should pay him an extra  £150, 
for the car, plus interest.       
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr P accepted  them. esure said 
the £200 for the service  package was paid to the finance company, rather  than to Mr P, so it 
was part of the cars valuation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although esures  shown  that it paid the £200 for the service package to the finance 
company, and has emphasised that it regarded  it as part of the valuation,  I dont think  that 
makes any difference  to the outcome in this case. 
Under the policy, esure was required to pay the market value for Mr Ps car. As Ive 
explained above, in my opinion, as it based  the valuation on the two lowest  values  quoted by 
the trade guides,  it didnt do that. I think the cars base market  value was £4,050,  so I think  
thats the sum esure  should have paid for the car, regardless  of the service package. 
In my opinion, the payment esure decided to make  for the service package  confused  the 
issue. Mr P has shown  us that he paid for the service package  separately from the car itself 
 along with items such as fuel and road tax  so it wasnt part of the cars  base value.  I 
dont think esure was required to pay Mr P for the service package, although it agreed to do 
so. I remain of the view that esure should pay more  to reflect the cars  base  market  value. 
   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require esure Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr P an extra £150  for the car, plus interest,  at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement. If esure considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
(HMRC) to withhold income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr P how much  its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9561084