K822xcomplaint
Mr P and his wife Mrs G complain about Legal  & General Insurance  Limiteds (L&G) 
handling of a claim they made on a home insurance policy.
background 
Mr P and Mrs G have  a home  insurance  policy with L&G. There was a leak at their home 
and they claimed  for the damage on the policy.  L&G appointed agents to carry out the 
repairs to the property, which included the replacement  of the kitchen and flooring.
Mr P and Mrs G were  unhappy with the quality of the work done, saying the kitchen  which 
was installed was of a lower quality than their original one. There  were  also issues  with the 
flooring which  became  damaged after it had been installed. They complained  to L&G.
L&G admitted  the kitchen  which had been installed wasnt suitable.  It compared the kitchen 
which has been installed to Mr P and Mrs Gs original kitchen it had in storage. It noted the 
thickness of the doors on the new kitchen was noticeably less than the original.  But L&G 
disputed that the damage to the flooring  was caused by the poor quality of the original 
repairs. It thought  the damage was caused  by moisture from a manhole cover  under the 
property. It acknowledged  it should  have done  better  and offered a settlement to replace the 
kitchen and also pay £1,050 as compensation. Mr P and Mrs G didnt agree with this and 
referred their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr P and Mrs Gs complaint. She thought L&G should  have 
done better.  She said that to put things right, L&G should appoint  a new contractor to visit 
the property and provide a detailed scope of works  with costings. It would then be for 
Mr P and Mrs G to decide whether they wanted to be paid a cash settlement in line with the 
costed scope of works,  or for L&Gs contractors to carry  out that work. She also said the 
amount of compensation should  be increased  to £1500.
L&G agreed with the investigators view, but Mr P and Mrs G didnt.  They said the 
compensation figure should be much higher. And they werent prepared to allow  L&Gs 
contractors to return to the property.  They  said they had quotes  from contractors which  
detailed the work required  and the costs involved.  Mr P and Mrs G also said they didnt trust 
L&Gs contractors to fit a kitchen of the appropriate standard. They said they didnt believe 
the kitchen held in storage by L&G was their original kitchen which had been removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under industry rules  an insurer is required to handle claims promptly and fairly. I dont think 
L&G or its agents have  handled this claim well on either aspect. Putting aside the issues with 
the kitchen, which Ill address  below, Im satisfied theres been a lack of clarity and 
communication from L&G about how it intends to proceed with resolving the claim. I can see 
that Mr P was in regular  contact with L&G and its agents about the claim but was often 
waiting for responses, and when these  responses  were received it wasnt  clear  what L&G 
and its agents  intended to do in order to progress the claim.
Ref: DRN93587932L&G initially  said it thought the further  damage to the flooring was caused  by a leak from a 
washing machine,  but later said it believed the damage was caused  by a manhole  under the 
floor. But its agents  also believed  it was possible the property hadnt  been dried fully after 
the original leak before the floor was fitted  originally.  It appointed an agent to carry out 
examinations but, when  no manhole was detected, said it believed  the agent hadnt carried 
out the necessary inspections. Mr P and Mrs G have  declined  to allow  the agent to return. I 
can understand why theyd  think  L&G havent dealt with this element of the claim well. L&G 
havent been clear  about  what they believe to be the cause of the damage to the floor, or 
why they now believe a manhole  to be responsible  for this. And the agents appointed by 
L&G are apparently not carrying  out the necessary  enquiries, causing further delays  and 
inconvenience to Mr P and Mrs G.
It appears there are two issues. The first is damage  to the wooden flooring itself and the 
other is that the concrete  underneath the floor may not be level. L&G have carried  out 
inspections but the cause  of the damage to the wooden  floor is not clear. On one hand  there  
is a suggestion  that the wooden floor was laid on the concrete before it had dried  out, and on 
the other its suggested  that high moisture level is centred around a previous manhole cover 
that has been built over. L&G has agreed to appoint a further expert  to establish the cause of 
the damage. Im satisfied thats  reasonable as without knowing the causal factor  further 
repairs would be unwise.  If the source  of the damage is covered by the policy, or connected 
to the original repairs carried out by its contractors, L&G would  be responsible for the repair 
costs. The expert should  also seek to ascertain whether  the concrete is level, if it isnt, 
whether thats  an issue and what  can be done  to redress  that.
Ultimately, the enquiries carried out to date havent identified  what caused further damage to 
the wooden floor. And it seems  logical that, before any further repair  works are carried out, 
the source of this damage needs  to be identified and rectified. If the source of the damage is 
covered by the policy, or connected  to the original  repairs carried out by its contractors, L&G 
would be responsible for the repair costs. L&G disputed it should cover damage  to the 
wooden floor as Mr P and Mrs G had arranged  for it to be fitted,  so if the damage was 
caused by an issue with the fitting  of the flooring it wasnt liable. But looking at the evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied that the wooden flooring was fitted by a contractor hired by 
L&Gs agent. 
Its accepted that the kitchen originally fitted  by L&Gs contractors was of an inferior quality 
to the one that was damaged. L&G has acknowledged this and agreed  to cover the cost of a 
new kitchen. Mr P and Mrs G have rejected the amount  offered  in settlement for this, saying  
the cost of the original kitchen was much  higher. Theyve provided  quotes for a new kitchen. 
But I cant agree  that these quotes mean L&G should  increase the amount offered in 
settlement. They dont detail how the cost given has been calculated, or demonstrate that 
they are for a like-for-like replacement of the original kitchen. Mr P and Mrs G also dispute 
that the kitchen  held in storage by L&G is their original kitchen. They  say L&Gs  agents have 
placed a different kitchen, of inferior quality, in storage. Ive seen no evidence to support this. 
L&G have said the kitchen in storage is of a superior  quality to the one they originally fitted. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that the kitchen  in storage is the original kitchen 
removed from the property. And its this kitchen that should be the like-for-like standard to be 
replaced into Mr Ps kitchen area.
Its clear to me that L&G needs to do more  to resolve this claim, and it accepts this. L&G 
should appoint  a contractor to visit the property and prepare a detailed  scope of works with 
costs. This should be a contractor who has had no previous involvement with the case. This 
scope of works also needs to establish the cause of the damage to the wooden floor and 
Ref: DRN93587933take into account how this can be rectified. When the cause of the damage  is identified, L&G 
would need to review the findings and consider the policy terms and conditions to confirm 
whether or not the further repairs are covered under the existing claim, should  be the subject 
of a new claim or wouldnt be covered under the policy.
And then Mr P and Mrs G can decide  whether to accept a cash  settlement so they can 
appoint their own contractor to carry out the work, or they can allow  L&Gs contractors to 
carry out the works themselves.  Mr P and Mrs G say this isnt necessary as theyve  provided  
quotes showing what the work  will cost. But, as with the kitchen quotes, these dont detail 
what work is required or the reasons  for it. And they dont identify whats causing the 
damage to the floor.  So, in my view, it would be unfair to L&G to accept these rather than 
seeking to prepare a full scope of works because the cause of the damage to the floor has 
not yet been identified, and whether the cause is covered  by the policy  still needs to be 
assessed. 
Its also apparent that Mr P and Mrs G have suffered a large amount of inconvenience and 
distress because of L&Gs  poor service.  And more inconvenience will be caused  by the 
further works  which are going to be needed  to resolve this claim. Theyve been in a house 
with damaged flooring with their young daughter and havent been given clarity in their 
dealings with L&G or a resolution to the issues. I dont  think the amount of compensation 
offered by L&G suitably recognises the level of distress and inconvenience caused.  L&G 
should pay £1500 in compensation to Mr P and Mrs G. L&Gs accepted  our previous view 
that it should pay this amount in compensation.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. To put things right,  I order  Legal & General 
Insurance Limited to:
Appoint experts to carry out enquiries  to confirm  the cause of the damage to the 
wooden flooring, and whether the concrete  requires levelling.
Confirm whether this damage is covered on the current  claim, covered as part of a 
new claim, or not covered by the policy.
Prepare a detailed  scope  of works  for the further repairs  covered  by the policy  with 
costs.
Offer  Mr P and Mrs G the option  of authorised contractors to carry out the works, but 
if they dont want  to use these then a cash settlement .
Pay £1500 compensation.
If Mr P and Mrs G choose to take a cash settlement, rather  than allowing L&Gs contractors  
to carry out the work, the amount paid will be at the rate L&G estimates for the repairs. This 
amount is likely to include  any discounts  it can benefit from. This may be less than the 
market rate Mr P and Mrs G would pay if they decided to arrange repairs  themselves.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P and Mrs G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN93587934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9358793