K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Secure Trust 
Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs A took receipt of a used car in July 2018. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Moneyway. At the point  it was supplied the car was about four years old and 
had already travelled 66,495 miles.
She had some issues with the car when she received it. The seats were  mouldy; the interior 
trim was soiled and there were some  scratches on the car. Mrs A says the dealership helped 
with some of these problems but she wasnt entirely  satisfied.
In January 2019 she took the car to an independent  garage who noted that the front brakes 
and one of the rear brakes needed  replacing. She complained to Moneyway but they 
rejected her claim as they said there was no proof  the brakes were faulty when the car was 
supplied as it had passed its MOT a few days beforehand and with no advisories. The 
dealership did agree to replace the brakes for her if she funded £80 of the costs.
In April 2019 Mrs A had problems with the clutch and the parking brake.  Another  garage 
suggested the clutch must have been  slipping when the car was supplied. They also said the 
brakes were  on their way out when the car was supplied to Mrs A and that the MOT  had 
been illegal.
Mrs A complained again to Moneyway but they didnt  uphold her complaint and she 
therefore referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt  support Mrs As complaint  either. He didnt think  there  was evidence 
that the brakes had been unduly worn when Mrs A had taken  ownership  of the car which  
was the point at which  the business would be responsible for the quality of the car. He 
thought the dealership had been fair when  funding the majority  of the cost. 
He understood  that the garage Mrs A had reported the clutch and brake problems to had 
suggested the brakes were on the way out when the car was supplied but he noticed  the 
brakes had been  changed  in January 2019  and he didnt think the garage would therefore be 
well placed to make  that statement. He didnt  think it was unusual for a cars clutch  to fail 
after 70,000  miles  of driving so he didnt think there was evidence that the faults Mrs A 
reported in April 2019 were present from the onset of the agreement  and he didnt think  it 
would be fair to ask Moneyway to take any further action. He explained that, whilst he 
understood the garage had suggested  the MOT was illegal, that wasnt a judgment he had 
the remit to make.
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators view and she therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95253202I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Moneyway, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs A. The car 
here was around  four years old and had travelled about 66,500  miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Moneyway to put this right. 
But Moneyways responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
I dont think I have  been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest any of these faults were 
present when the car was supplied  to Mrs A. 
I think its fair to say that brakes are wear and tear items and, whilst I understand some work  
was required to the brakes six months after Mrs A took receipt of the car, I am persuaded 
the brakes were  most probably at the requisite, roadworthy standard  when the car was 
supplied. The MOT, which was completed by an approved  body a few days before Mrs A 
took receipt of the car, said so.
Im not persuaded by the subsequent  garages comments  about the brakes  being on their 
way out when supplied.  I think  its difficult  to support their statement as the brakes had 
already been replaced and the garage  hadnt  therefore been able to inspect them.
I dont think its unusual  for a clutch to slip after over 70,000 miles of driving and Im not 
persuaded that, after nine months of ownership,  there is evidence  the clutch was faulty, or 
developing a fault, when the car was supplied to Mrs A. I think  if that had been the case it 
would be likely Mrs A would have  reported  problems much  earlier.
Ref: DRN95253203Its not my place to comment  on the quality of an MOT test. Any complaint of that type 
should, I think, be taken up with the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency. 
Overall, having considered the evidence provided  for this complaint, Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair to ask Moneyway to take any further action as I dont think  theres been 
sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9525320