K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  at how Wirecard  Card Solutions Limited dealt  with a payment to her credit 
card.
background
On 29 October 2018, Mrs M tried to make a faster payment of £400 from her account with 
Wirecard to her credit  card with Lender T. But Mrs M transferred the money  to the wrong 
account with Lender  T  shed transferred it to an account for cash and cheque payments 
only. So the money wasnt applied to her account.
Lender T have said they wouldve  refunded  this payment to Wirecard, as they dont hold 
funds in suspense  accounts. Theyve  also said that, if Wirecard  can provide them with the 
faster payment  reference  number (automatically generated when a faster payment is 
attempted) they could try and trace this payment. Wirecard havent done this, and they say 
they havent received any money  back from Lender T.
Mrs M has complained that Wirecard havent  put the £400 back  into her account.
Our investigator said that the Financial Ombudsman  Service  has already considered  Mrs 
Ms complaint against Lender T, and we found  theyd  acted  reasonably. Because  of this, she 
felt that Wirecard received  the money back from Lender T, and this has either been applied 
to the wrong account or is sitting  in a suspense account. 
She also didnt think  it was fair that Wirecard said Lender T had Mrs Ms money, if they 
couldnt provide  the faster  payment reference to show where it was sent. So she said 
Wirecard should refund Mrs Ms £400 to her and pay her interest  for the time shes been 
without the money.
Wirecard didnt agree  with the investigator. They dont think theres  enough evidence  to say 
theyre holding  Mrs Ms money.  So theyve  asked for an ombudsman  to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence,  I agree 
with the investigators  findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive seen that Wirecard  paid the £400 to Lender  T on 29 October 2018. The details theyve 
provided shows the sort code and account  number this was paid to. But I cant see the 
receiving reference  number to confirm this was correct for Mrs Ms account.
There are two possibilities  here - Mrs Ms money was either retained by Lender T or returned 
to Wirecard. Lender T havent applied the payment  to Mrs Ms account. Theyve also said 
that, because  they dont  have any suspense accounts for the details Wirecard used, the 
payment wouldve automatically been  returned to the sender.
Ref: DRN99437362Lender Ts dealings with the payment have already been investigated by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The result  of this investigation was that Lender  T hadnt  done anything 
wrong. This was based on the evidence  provided  by Lender T showing the account details 
used couldnt  accept the payment made; and that the £400 wouldve either been returned 
direct to Mrs Ms account or wouldve gone into a suspense account with Wirecard.
Lender T have also said that, with the automatically generated faster payment reference, 
they can try to trace what happened with the payment. But Wirecard  cant  provide this 
reference number.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  that its more  likely than not that the £400 
wouldve been returned to Wirecard, and this rejection of the payment wouldve taken place 
no later than the working day after the payment was attempted.
putting things right
Wirecard should refund Mrs M the £400 payment that was rejected by Lender T. They  
should also pay her 8% annual simple  interest  from 30 October 2018 (the day after the 
payment was attempted) to the date of the refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions  
Limited must  follow my directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9943736