K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the settlement offered by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) 
following a furniture insurance claim.  
background
Mrs H made  a claim under her furniture insurance policy for damage to her sofa.
Amtrusts expert  assessed the damage and attempted  to repair  the sofa. Mrs H wasnt 
satisfied with the repairs and sent photographs to Amtrust to show  the state  of the sofa after 
the attempted repair.
Amtrust offered Mrs H a credit note for a new item at the same value she purchased  her 
original sofa and from the same retailer. Mrs H says she couldnt find a suitable replacement 
because the available sofas  were  too large and/or too expensive. 
So Amtrust offered  a cash settlement amount  of half the purchase  price of the original sofa. 
Mrs H thought it was unfair  for such a large deduction to be made  and brought her complaint 
to our service. Our investigator thought Amtrust was entitled under the terms of Mrs Hs 
policy to pay the reduced  cash settlement theyd offered. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She says that the 
reduced cash settlement  isnt enough for her to buy a new item and the policy document 
doesnt state that such a reduction can be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ill explain  why. 
Amtrusts policy terms gives them,  rather than the policyholder, the choice as to how a claim 
is settled i.e. by repairing,  replacing, or paying  cash. Amtrust couldnt  repair  Mrs Hs sofa to 
her satisfaction, so they offered to replace it. Mrs H says she couldnt find a suitable 
replacement so she wanted a cash settlement of the same value at which she brought her 
original item.
Amtrust receives substantial discounts  from retailers, which is why they often choose to 
settle a claim by replacing a damaged item.  I consider it fair for Amtrust to settle a claim 
based on the discounted amount (i.e. the amount it would pay the retailer)  if they offer to 
replace an item but the policy holder chooses to receive cash instead, as Mrs H has done.
There are times when it might  be unfair for the claim settlement to be reduced. This is 
usually where the items cant reasonably be replaced. And Im satisfied thats not the case  
here. The retailer has a large number of sofas  on offer at a broad range of prices.
Ref: DRN90715242Amtrust offered Mrs H a credit note at the same value as her original sofa to purchase  a 
replacement item at the same retailer. This may not have  been on an exact basis  because 
the sofa Mrs H originally purchased is no longer available,  but I think the replacements  
would have been adequate enough for Amtrust  to fulfil its obligations under the policy. So I 
think its fair for Amtrust to offer to pay Mrs H a reduced amount for the sofa that they could 
have replaced.
Mrs H has said that the policy didnt say that such a deduction would be made  if the claim 
was settled in cash.
The policy doesnt  specifically  mention that a cash settlement for replacement  items wont  
pay more than the discounted  amount Amtrust would have paid to replace the item.  But for 
the reasons Ive mentioned before, Im satisfied that Amtrust  fulfilled their obligations  under  
the policy by offering  a reasonable replacement  and I think  thats fair and reasonable. 
So Im not going to ask Amtrust  to pay Mrs H any more than they would have paid the 
retailer to replace the item.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9071524