K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mr R complains Zurich Assurance  Ltd mis-sold him a personal pension  plan 
and is unhappy  about its current value.
background
In 1988, Mr R met with Zurich to plan for his retirement. He set up a personal  pension plan 
which he paid into monthly. This plan was split across a Property  fund and a Pension 
Managed fund. He also contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pensions Scheme 
(SERPS) and the rebates were invested  into his pension plan as well. Mr R says at the time 
he was told he could  expect a minimum of £112,000 and possibly up to £300,000 or more 
when he turned 55. He says he was told his money  would double  each year.  Mr R contacted  
back in to SERPS from 1999.
Mr R has recently  been sent a value of his pension fund from Zurich  and it is much  lower 
than he says he was led to believe. So he complained  to Zurich. Zurich  didnt  agree  it had 
done anything  wrong. It said the pension was suitable for Mr R at the time he took it out. 
Zurich also explained  the projections  Mr R was given  when  he took the pension  were based 
on industry standards at the time and werent  guaranteed amounts and this was made  clear  
in its illustrations. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr R asked us to look into his complaint. One of our 
investigators reviewed everything  and didnt think the pension  had been mis-sold to Mr R. 
He agreed the pension  was suitable  for Mr Rs needs. He said Zurich  used projection figures 
it was entitled  to use at the time Mr R took his pension. And these projections werent  
guaranteed. 
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained the pension  had been mis-sold because he was told hed 
get back more  money than he is going to. And he was unhappy with the current  amount his 
pension fund was worth. He asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  So 
its been passed to me to review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for the same  reasons.
I cant know what was or wasnt discussed at the time Mr R took his pension. In cases  like 
this, where the events  being complained about occurred a long time ago, and we dont know  
what was or wasnt said, I have to base  my decision on the balance  of probability. That is 
what is most likely  to have happened  given the evidence I do have.
Ref: DRN91785472Ive first thought about whether the recommendation to take the pension was a suitable one. 
The fact find completed  at the time suggests Mr R was employed but his employer  didnt 
offer a workplace pension  scheme and he wasnt saving anywhere else for his retirement. 
Mr R was only going to be paying £20 a month  which  seemed  affordable considering his 
recorded salary at the time. And it seems Mr R was prepared to accept some risk with his 
money. Based on this, I dont think the pension  was unsuitable for Mr R. 
Ive also considered whether the advice  to contract  out was appropriate. There  are times 
when we would think it wasnt, depending on the customers  age, earnings and whether they 
had access to a company  pension scheme.  But none of this applies in Mr Rs situation. So I 
dont think the advice to contract out was unsuitable.
But the suitability  of the pension doesnt seem to be Mr Rs main concern - its more what  he 
says he was told when  he took it about how much it would be worth  when he turned 55. So 
Ive gone on to consider this.
I know Mr R thinks  he was told that his money would double every  year and he would get 
back much  more than he is likely  to receive. But I also have to consider that this pension  
was taken in 1988  nearly 30 years ago  and memories do fade over time. So Ive placed 
more weight on the documentary evidence I have  from around the time  mainly the 
illustrations and other information  Mr R was given.
I think its most likely  that these illustrations are what led Mr R to believe he would get back 
the amounts he thinks he was told he would get, rather than being promised it by the 
advisor. The illustrations  do show potential funds values of much higher than Mr Rs fund is 
currently worth. But from what Ive seen I dont think  they suggested any form of guarantee 
as to the returns Mr R could expect. 
The rates used in these  illustrations were standard rates  which the regulator required all 
firms to use to give an indication of what someone  might get back   not what  they would get 
back. So I cant say Zurich was wrong  when it used these rates in the illustrations provided. 
And I think the illustrations make  clear it may be more  or less than this. 
Lastly, Ive considered Mr Rs point  that he isnt happy with the funds current value. We 
dont normally look into the performance  of funds.  I say this because  it wouldnt normally  be 
appropriate for this service to become involved in disputes about the legitimate exercise of a 
business reasonable exercise of its commercial judgement in managing a fund, unless we 
had concerns that a fund had been mismanaged. And Ive seen  nothing  to support Mr Rs 
belief his funds  have been mis-managed  or that the current value isnt correct. So I dont 
think Zurich has done anything wrong in this regard.
I understand Mr Rs disappointment  that his pension  will likely be worth less when he retires 
than he thought it would be. But this doesnt mean the original advice was unsuitable; the 
advice given has to be considered in light of what was thought reasonable at the time. And 
for the reasons Ive explained above,  I think the information available  suggests  Mr R was 
given suitable  advice and I dont think he was given any guarantees about how his pension 
would perform.
Ref: DRN91785473my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9178547