K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 2003.  They  paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs S case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because:
Mr and Mrs S completed their mortgage application in October 2003. The application 
form they signed didnt mention PPI. I understand they wouldve had to complete a 
separate application for the PPI, which they did in November 2003. This application form 
wouldve shown the cost and benefit of the policy, and how this wouldve been split 
between Mr and Mrs S. So I think  Santander  made Mr and Mrs S aware  that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were given  the impression that they had to have the PPI in order 
to get the mortgage.  But Ive found  no additional  evidence to support this allegation. So I 
dont think it would  be fair to uphold the complaint purely on the basis of their memory of 
events that took place  over 15 years ago.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, and it seems to have been right for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They had less than six 
months worth of savings  to use if one of them had been unable  to work. The PPI 
wouldve protected their savings  by paying  their mortgage for up to a year. This is longer 
than their savings wouldve lasted and meant they could be used for other things.  
Mr and Mrs S did make a claim in 2007. They cancelled the policy  shortly  after this. They  
say this was because the policy  didnt  pay out. But the insurers records  show  that 
payments were made  for the claim. I dont think any disappointment Mr and Mrs S felt 
over the claim is enough for me to conclude that the policy was mis-sold. I cant  be sure 
of why they decided to cancel the policy, as their memory of what  happened with the 
claim doesnt match up to the records from the time. And the insurers records  show  they 
simply cancelled the direct debit. Theres nothing from the time to show why they did 
this. 
Its possible that Santander couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Mr and Mrs S would still have bought it. 
Ref: DRN98282252Its possible that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr 
and Mrs S dont appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs S comments. But these  points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9828225