K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) didnt  act fairly when dealing with the 
repossession of her property. She wants compensation.
background
Ms L had a mortgage  with BOI and got into financial difficulties. The property was 
repossessed by BOI in 2017 and then sold. Ms L said that BOI didnt act fairly as it didnt get 
the best price  for the property as it reduced the asking price too much to reflect  that fact that 
work needed to be done to it (saying that it was otherwise  uninhabitable), caused damage, 
and disposed of the remaining contents.
Ms L complained to BOI. It said there was no evidence showing that any contents were  
damaged or stolen  during  the eviction, and that the evidence from its agents and the police 
said that the condition of the property and contents  was poor. BOI said that its agents had 
tried to contact Ms L about the removal  of the contents, and she either didnt attend or when 
she did, she wasnt able to co-operate. BOI agreed  that the contents were then disposed  of 
by its agents, but this was necessary to then place the property onto the market. It confirmed 
that the property  was still being marketed.
Ms L complained to us, and said that the property wasnt being properly looked after. BOI 
said that it had now been sold for more than the asking  price.  She thought  that it was 
possible the charges  BOI would claim would be unreasonable; BOI agreed to this service 
considering this issue too and sent evidence of the charges  claimed. Ms L said all of the 
charges were unfair and unreasonable.
The investigators view was that BOI wasnt at fault. She said that the evidence  available, 
including photographs taken on the eviction day, showed that the condition  of the property 
was extremely poor,  and she couldnt  find that the damage happened  afterwards as Ms L 
had said. The investigator also said that while the photos didnt show  the items Ms L claimed 
had been taken, she thought BOIs  agents  had given Ms L a fair and reasonable opportunity 
to remove her possessions and BOI wasnt required to store  the contents of the property. 
The complaint wasnt upheld.
Ms L disagreed. She said the investigators view was incorrect and lies had been told. She 
also accepted  though  that she didnt remember much from the eviction  day itself.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I think  the investigators reasoning set out in her view is correct, but shes not dealt with all 
of Ms Ls complaint  in my view. This means its right that I issue a provisional decision to 
enable the parties  to respond to all of the points I make below.
Ref: DRN93318112Ms L has said that BOIs  agents  damaged some of the contents  in her property and set out 
in detail the damage that she said was done  after eviction. But the photos  and 
contemporaneous evidence supplied from the eviction day itself shows the damage  had 
been done when BOIs  agents arrived. And while I appreciate that this is difficult  for Ms L to 
accept, the condition of the property was extremely poor as shown by the photos and reports  
of both BOIs  agents and third parties,  including the police.  I think its more  likely than not 
that any damage done wasnt  done  by BOIs agents.
And Ms L feels BOIs  agents shouldve  stored  the contents. The courts have been very clear  
in saying that lenders, following repossession, do not have to store contents. Its cost 
effective to dispose of the contents to enable sale of the property. That said,  agents should  
give the former owner an opportunity to collect their possessions. Even Ms L accepts that 
she did get access to do so. She disputes  the evidence  that BOIs  agents repeatedly  tried to 
contact her; I place  weight  on that evidence as the notes were made at the time and are 
consistent with the other evidence about  Ms Ls behaviour. The agents also tried to find 
important possessions, such as passports  and asked Ms L to give them a list of the items 
she wanted to keep to no avail. Im satisfied that BOI and its agents acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Ms Ls possessions and there  is no evidence supporting 
Ms Ls belief  that items have been stolen.
Having considered the evidence available to me, I can see the property was marketed for a 
long period of time and eventually sold for more than the advising estate  agents  thought  was 
achievable. BOI wasnt required to carry out work  to the property in order to improve it (such 
costs being unlikely to be recoverable)  and given the condition  of the property, I cant  say 
that it failed to take all reasonable steps  to obtain the best price.
I also reviewed the costs claimed. Ms L says the dates of the items  dont match  what  
happened. But the dates  are only when the cost was itemised; it doesnt have to match the 
actual date of work,  particularly given the number of agents and sub-contractors involved. 
From the accounts of those who dealt with Ms L following the repossession, Im satisfied that 
her own conduct caused  much of the work to be carried  out; its worth noting  many of the 
items were based on the time spent dealing with her. And the items claimed appear to be 
both reasonable  items of work required and a fair cost. I cant  say the costs claimed are 
unfair or unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  BOI said that it accepted  my assessment and had 
nothing to add. Ms L asked for and was given extra time to respond to the provisional  
decision, but didnt respond by the date that she said she would supply her comments.
Ive looked at the evidence again  and considered the complaint. I remain of the view set out 
in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN93318113my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 
2 June 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9331811