K820x#14complaint
Ms Y complains  that Unum Ltd (Unum) unfairly declined  a claim she made under an 
income protection policy.
background
Ms Y is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection  scheme.,  She was signed 
off work by her GP and has been away from work  since November 2017. Once the deferred 
period ended Unum  considered a claim under the income protection policy.  On her claim 
form Ms Y said that she was suffering from stress  and anxiety. She explained she was 
working in a highly pressurised  and demanding working environment which had led to 
palpitations, headaches and fatigue. 
Unum declined the claim, saying the absence  wasnt  caused  by a medical condition. It said 
Ms Ys GP had noted ongoing work  place  stress  as a cause for the absence. They  also 
pointed out there was no evidence of a requirement for medication  or that her reported 
symptoms were impacting  her ability to function  on a day to day basis.
So, Unum  concluded  the absence was related  to perceived work place issues rather  than a 
medical condition.  And it said absence due to work related issues therefore werent covered 
by the policy.
Ms Y brought her complaint to our service. She said Unum had unfairly declined the claim 
considering what  happened.  And she said it should  pay her 60% of her salary from the 
period she was absent, in line with the benefits  of the policy.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. The investigator reviewed all of the 
relevant evidence and it wasnt unreasonable for Unum to conclude  that Ms Ys inability to 
work was related to the circumstances  at her workplace,  not a medical  condition.  And 
therefore, she said Unum had fairly declined the claim.
Ms Y disagreed and said she had suffered a medical condition, post-traumatic stress, which 
was caused by the workplace. And she provided  a specialist  doctors  letter to support this. 
The investigator acknowledged Ms Y had suffered post-traumatic stress but said this wasnt 
diagnosed during the deferral period of the policy. 
Ms Y disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
In this case, Unum  has acknowledged that Ms Y was absent from work. But its said the 
cause of this absence wasnt covered by the policy  and didnt meet its definition of 
incapacity. So firstly, Ive considered the policy. 
Ref: DRN93000612This says the member  is incapacitated  if Unum  is satisfied that the member is:
(a) unable, by reason  of their illness or injury,  to perform the material  and substantial  
duties of the insured occupation, and is
(b) not performing  any occupation, except as provided under paragraph  5.3 
So the key issue  for me to consider is whether its reasonable for Unum  to decline the claim 
on the basis that Ms Y didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
From what  Ive seen Unum seems  to have accepted that Ms Y experienced the symptoms 
she describes, including heart palpitations,  severe headaches, fatigue,  reduced stamina and 
others. But it disputes that this meant  she was unable,  by reason of her illness,  to perform 
her own occupation.  
If Ms Y could carry out the same  role  her own occupation, but with a different  employer   
the claim will not be covered by the policy. So I need  to be satisfied that Ms Y was unable  to 
carry out her occupation generally as a result  of her illness,  and not just her specific  job.
This is not an uncommon requirement with these  types of policies. So Ive considered the 
evidence thats  been presented. As there  is a considerable number of reports, Ive focused 
on those Ive found to be most relevant in my decision.
Ms Ys GP notes from November 2017 onwards  make regular reference to work related 
stress, using  phrases  such  as highly pressurised  at work. Ive seen  nothing  else within 
these notes to suggest  the symptoms Ms Y experienced  were  caused by anything  other than 
the issues she was having in the workplace or that she was diagnosed with any underlying 
illness. 
Ive also considered the notes and reports provided by Ms Ys occupational health  (OH)  
provider. In telephone notes from 10 January 2018 it says Unfit for work due to ongoing ill-
health symptoms  which have not yet been  fully investigations. Also taking into consideration 
high demand role [sic]. A letter was produced by the OH in February 2018 that said in their 
opinion Ms Y was still unfit to perform  her role. This went  on to say:
I understand that Ms Y has had some  recent  discussions with her manager in regards to the 
perceived work related issues outlined above.  Having  the opportunity to discuss  these 
concerns and to identify  possible  solutions  in my opinion is likely to have a positive impact 
on Ms Ys recovery. As such  I would recommend that these discussions should  continue. 
Again this suggests to me that Ms Ys symptoms were caused by her workplace and the 
stresses it brought. 
Ive also seen notes  from Ms Ys cardiologist from early 2018. These say:
She has been conscious of being under  stress at work and is aware that many  of her 
symptoms may be related  to anxiety. She reports daily palpitation, where the heart thumps 
regularly and forcefully, but not at a particularly high rate.
Following tests, the cardiologist reported  that Ms Y had a normal,  healthy heart. From  this 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Ms Y had an underlying  medical condition that caused her 
symptoms.
Ref: DRN93000613Ms Y has recently highlighted a letter from a specialist which references her suffering  from 
post-traumatic stress.  She has said this diagnosis should highlight that her illness  should be 
covered by the policy. Within the letter shes referenced, it says:
The symptoms Ms Y reports are in line with a diagnosis  of post-traumatic stress which she 
attributes wholly  to unfavourable work  conditions. 
I dont doubt the diagnosis  Ms Y has been given. Nor do I doubt the severity of the situation 
and the impact it has had on Ms Ys life. But even  from this letter it appears that her 
workplace is the sole cause for this.
The specialist goes  on to say that its reasonable to presume  that once the work dispute was 
resolved that her prognosis would be good. And that the majority of her symptoms of stress 
appear to arise from the work situation. They conclude that in their opinion  the resolution  to 
this lies within the business domain rather than with occupational health.
Ive carefully considered  these statements alongside  everything  Ms Y has told us, and Im 
not persuaded that the evidence suggests her condition  was as a result of anything  outside 
of her workplace and her specific  role and job. 
So it follows  Im not persuaded that Ms Y couldnt  carry out the same role with a different  
employer and on balance,  I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude  her absence  
stemmed from an employer/employee issue as opposed to a medical  one. And for these 
reasons Im satisfied that Unum has handled and declined this claim fairly. 
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9300061