K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc mismanaged some payments on his current  account 
which left him in an unarranged overdraft. 
Background
At the start of April,  Mr H used his debit card to make payments totalling around £700 to a 
merchant, who Ill refer to as A. Sometime  after this, Mr H checked the available  balance  on 
the account, and noted  he was around £700  in credit.  He subsequently spent these funds. 
Towards the end of April, Mr H noted that his account was around  £700 overdrawn. He 
contacted Santander as he thought there must  have  been an error.  He said that the account 
didnt have an overdraft  facility, and in any event,  hed only spent  his available balance.  
Santander said that A hadnt claimed the payments Mr H made  at the start of April until 
almost four weeks later. This was after Mr H had checked his available balance and spent 
the amount shown.  Santander said it had no option  but to honour the payments, even 
though this took Mr H into an unarranged overdraft. And as Mr H had authorised the 
payments, he was liable  for them. It froze all interest and charges while  it investigated Mr Hs 
concerns and later agreed that he could  repay  the outstanding balance  gradually. 
Mr H remained  unhappy so brought his complaint to us. He felt that the funds shouldnt have 
shown in his available balance while Santander was waiting for A to claim them.  This made it 
look like they were  available to spend. He said that Santander should have refused the 
payments instead  of allowing him to go into an unarranged overdraft. In settlement, he felt 
the debt should be waived  and all record of it removed from his credit  file.  
Mr H also complained about the time hed spent  trying to resolve the matter, and said that 
Santander repeatedly made promises to call him back but never  did.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said that a short time after Mr H 
authorised the payments Santander had made  the funds available  to him again  because A 
hadnt claimed them. But he pointed out that A had six months  to make this claim. He didnt 
think Santander could  have refused to honour  the payments because Mr H owed  A the 
money. Mr H didnt  agree, so I need to make  a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Card payments involve  a two stage process  whereby they are authorised  by the customer  
and settled by the merchant  later. In the majority of cases, merchants will claim payment 
within a few working days. So banks  will generally set authorised  payments aside for a short  
period of time to help customers manage  their spending. After that, if the funds  arent 
claimed by the merchant,  the funds are released back into the customers  account. 
Mr H accepts that he authorised the transactions to A. There  were sufficient funds in his 
account to pay for them at that time. So Santander  accepted his authorisation and set the 
funds aside for A to claim in the manner Ive described above. After  15 days, Santander had 
received no claim from A. So it released  the funds back  into Mr Hs account. 
Ref: DRN90361842I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that this enabled him to spend money  hed effectively 
already spent. But Im satisfied 15 days was a reasonable time for Santander to have set the 
funds aside. By releasing the funds back into Mr Hs account  after that period, Santander 
was acting in line with its process and wider industry practice. Its unfortunate that A took 
nearly four weeks to claim  the payments. But this wasnt within Santanders control.  And 
there was still some  onus  on Mr H to monitor the payments coming in and out of his account. 
I know that Mr H feels  that Santander should have refused to make  the payments given that 
he had no overdraft facility. But I dont think Santander was in a position to do that. If banks 
were able to refuse to honour authorised card transactions,  merchants selling goods and 
services would have  no guarantee  that theyd  ever receive payment. Under the relevant 
scheme rules, A had six months to claim the payments. So Santander had no grounds to 
refuse its claim, leaving no option  but to put the account into an unarranged overdraft. 
Mr H has complained that he spent a lot of time on the phone  with Santander but didnt 
achieve a satisfactory  resolution. The resolution  Mr H wanted was for Santander to waive  
the outstanding balance.  That isnt something  Id have expected  it to do given that Mr H 
ultimately had the benefit of £700 more than he had in his account. But I think it did take 
other positive steps to help Mr H repay  the outstanding balance in a sustainable way. 
Santander suspended interest  and charges while it looked into Mr Hs concerns. It referred  
Mr H to debt charities, and later agreed to his proposal to repay the balance gradually over 
time. Its agreed to stop collection activity and to freeze all interest and charges while  Mr H 
makes repayments, which will stop the debt from growing. So while  Mr H did make a number 
of calls to Santander,  I think it worked with him to lessen the impact  of what  happened.  
Mr H feels that Santander  repeatedly failed to call him back  as promised. I can see a number 
of entries in Santanders call logs which suggest  that it tried unsuccessfully  to contact  Mr H 
on both his mobile number, and the foreign landline number he provided. Santander has 
also sent us a record of a voicemail left for Mr H by a complaint handler. So Im satisfied  
Santander made reasonable attempts to call Mr H. And I can see that he was able to discuss  
the matter with Santander over the phone  when he made inbound calls.  
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy that Santander  is reporting on his credit file that his account  is 
in arrears. Santander has agreed that Mr H can repay the debt gradually.  Whether  lenders 
continue to report arrears in these circumstances depends on the size and regularity of the 
repayments. If the debt is likely to be repaid reasonably quickly,  lenders will sometimes 
agree to report an arrangement. But in this case, Santander says Mr H has only made one 
repayment towards the debt so far. So I think its reasonable that its continued to report  the 
arrears on Mr Hs credit file as that accurately reflects how the account is being  managed.
Mr H has also said Santander sent letters about  the unarranged overdraft to his mothers  
address. The address  Santander holds for Mr H is the same one that hes given us. And his 
contact preferences with Santander allowed for postal  correspondence. So I think  it was 
reasonable for Santander to have  written to that address. And its required by statute to send 
Mr H certain notices and statements while hes in arrears. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  
Ref: DRN90361843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9036184