K820x#14complaint
Mr R says that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a single premium 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) policy when he took out a personal  loan.
background
In 2003 Mr R took out a personal  loan during  a meeting at a branch  of Nationwide. At the 
same time he was sold a single premium PPI policy. A successful  claim on the policy  
wouldve covered  Mr Rs loan repayments if he was unable to work in the event of accident 
or sickness or become unemployed.
Our adjudicator thought that from way the information  on the PPI was set out in the 
paperwork it was clear  that Mr R had a choice about  taking  out the PPI and couldnt see any 
other reasons why he wouldnt  have taken out the policy. 
Mr R didnt agree. Mr R says it wasnt made  clear  the policy  was optional and he didnt  need  
the policy as his employer provided significant  benefits. 
So his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs complaint.
I hope that Mr R wont  take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have.  Ours in an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr R agreed  to take it. The 
PPI was sold during  a meeting at a branch of Nationwide. Mr R says he wasnt  made aware 
of the policy  and doesnt remember  having  anything explained to him. I think  thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a long time ago. So Ive relied more  on what we know of 
Nationwides sales processes and the documents from the time of the sale.
From what  we know about Nationwides sales process at the time a sales  representative 
wouldve taken Mr R though the loan application  and inputted  his details  onto a computer 
screen. An agreement  would then have been  printed which  showed the options chosen  by 
Mr R. 
Ive seen a copy  of Nationwides staff instructions sales process for Loancare  and PPI which  
was in place at the time of the sale. I can see that the sales representative  was instructed to 
give quotes both with and without PPI. While  I dont  know  exactly  what was discussed at the 
meeting I think its likely that Mr R wouldve been  given quotes  showing the loan with and 
without PPI. 
I have a copy of Mr Rs loan agreement which sets out the costs  of the loan and the 
Optional Credit Insurance  with and without interest, separately.  I dont think  that Mr R 
wouldve thought  the PPI wasnt  optional  when thats how its described in the agreement  he 
Ref: DRN99526662signed. And I think the PPI was included on the loan agreement  because Mr R chose to take 
it. If he hadnt chosen to take PPI I think he wouldve raised  this with the sales  representative 
when he saw it on the loan agreement.
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI was non-advised. What this means  is that in its view it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mr R, it just gave him information about PPI and it was up to Mr R 
to decide if the policy  suited his needs.  This information needed to be given  in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice about buying 
PPI. 
I think the cost of the policy  was clear but I dont know if the other  information  given was 
good enough. In saying  that I dont think this wouldve made a difference  because  I still think 
Mr R wouldve taken out the policy because: 
Mr R was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr R says he was entitled to a generous level of sick pay from his employer and his 
partner wouldve helped  with his repayments  if he was unable  to work or lost his job. 
But there is no guarantee his partner would be able to help and a successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to any cover he had in place as well as filling  
any gaps. 
It wouldve  covered him for the full term of the loan all repayments for a period of 12 
months if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out if he was unable to work  due to 
sickness or accident for the duration of his loan and the loan wouldve been  settled  in 
the event of his death. I cant see how knowing this information wouldve changed his 
mind about  buying  the policy.
There is nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable. I note the relatively short 
duration of the loan but Mr R wouldve only had to receive one months worth of 
benefit in order  to receive back what  he paid in total for the PPI.
And the policy offered a pro-rata refund so he wouldnt have lost out if he repaid the 
loan early. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr R on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him. 
And because of this I dont think Mr R is any worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by 
Nationwide.
Ref: DRN99526663my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952666