K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the end of contract charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA)  have 
asked him to pay for refurbishment of his car at the end of its lease.
background
In June 2016, Mr W took receipt of a second hand  car, originally registered  in 2013. He 
funded it through a three-year hire purchase agreement with PSA.  The agreement said that 
the car should  be returned at the end of the contract  in a good  condition and if it wasnt  Mr W 
would be responsible for paying for any refurbishment costs.  But, when Mr W returned  the 
car, he was upset to be asked to pay for repairs to seven  areas  that PSA said were 
damaged beyond fair wear and tear. The total bill was £646.00
He complained to PSA but his complaint wasnt upheld. PSA thought  the third party 
inspection theyd completed clearly showed 16 areas of damage, of which,  seven fell outside  
of the industry  guidelines provided by the British Vehicle  Rental and Leasing  Association 
(BVRLA). They pointed out that within the FAQ section of Mr Ws voluntary termination quote 
there was specific information of the condition the car should  be presented in when it was 
returned. They say adequate notice  was given for any repairs to be carried out prior to the 
vehicles return in order to avoid incurring any further  charges. But, as a gesture of goodwill 
and in an attempt  to reach an amicable  solution,  PSA offered to reduce the charges to 
£484.50, a reduction  of 25%.
Mr W was still dissatisfied  so he referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the pictures provided by the inspection company. He commented on each of the 
seven areas  of repair Mr W was being  charged  for. He agreed that in the seven noted areas, 
the damage was beyond  the fair wear and tear guidance and PSA were correct in making  
the charges. He said he found the reduction  in the overall charges to be very fair and 
reasonable and so he didnt ask them to do anything further.
PSA accepted his findings but Mr W didnt  and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigators view and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at the agreement. This says that the car should be returned  in good condition  
and that damage  which  exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers responsibility.
BVRLA issue the fair wear and tear guidelines.  These are often used by finance companies 
in determining whether damage exceeds  fair wear and tear.
Mr Ws finance agreement required him to return the vehicle in a good  condition with no 
damage that was beyond  fair wear and tear. The standard to which the condition  of the car 
would be inspected was detailed in section 18 of Mr Ws finance agreement. It explained for 
example, what size of dent or scratch was allowable. The standard was in line with that 
provided by the industry guidelines published  by the BVRLA.
Ref: DRN93620162Ive looked at the Manheim inspection report. This identifies 16 individual areas of damage,  
seven of the report says exceeds fair wear  and tear and is therefore chargeable. There are 
also photos of the damage,  which I have  looked at carefully.
The damage detailed  in the report that falls outside fair wear  and tear and the repair  costs  
are as follows:
1.Sill Panel  (RHS)  dent  paint damage  10-30mm - £152.00
2.Rear Alloy Wheel (LHS)  gouged   spoke damage - £65.00
3.Front Mirror (LHS)  scuffed  26-100mm - £40.00
4.D Post (LHS)  scratched through paint  26-100 mm - £40.00
5.Quarter Panel (LHS)  dent  paint damage  - £152.00
6.Tailgate/Boot  scratched  through paint  100mm  - £122
7.Rear Bumper  scratched through paint  100mm (multiple) - £75
Im satisfied the photographic evidence and measurements of each of the seven areas of 
damage PSA are claiming refurbishment costs for are correct and I agree that in each 
instance the damage is beyond what the BVRLA  guidance would say was acceptable fair 
wear and tear.
I appreciate Mr W has said some  of this damage was present when  he received the vehicle. 
I have also noted  that in its initial  response  in October 2018, PSA asked Mr W to send any 
evidence of this to them and they would reconsider the charges of any were  seen to be 
present at acquisition. But I havent  seen any evidence presented to this service or PSA.
Im persuaded PSA have  acted fairly  and reasonably in offering to reduce the overall 
charges to £484.50 and as the evidence Ive seen supports the refurbishment costs Im not 
going to ask PSA to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9362016