K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out an PPI policy  on his existing mortgage  in 1995. Mr S paid a monthly amount 
for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Halifax shouldve taken  reasonable steps  to make  Mr S aware he had a choice  in buying the 
policy. Mr S says he doesnt remember taking the PPI. In reaching  my decision,  Ive thought 
about Mr Ss comments alongside  his PPI application documents, which Halifax  has 
provided. Ive also considered what I know about the way Halifax  sold these policies in 
general, and to decide whats  most likely to have happened. 
Looking at the copy of the PPI application  form, its been completed with various details 
about Mr S and hes signed  this application.  This suggests to me Mr S chose the cover  that 
best suited his needs at the time. 
From what  we know about how Halifax sold these policies at the time, it would have made it 
clear the policy  was optional. And nothing that Mr S has said leads me to think  that Halifax  
didnt follow  its normal procedures here. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr S aware he had a choice about buying the policy.  
And  at the time  he chose to take it. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr S so it shouldve  made  sure the policy was right 
for him. From what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable for Mr S based on his 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why:
Mr S met the policys requirements so was eligible for it.
Mr S says he wouldve  received  20 weeks sick pay benefit  from his employer. It 
doesnt look like Mr S had any other  means   such as savings  to make  his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work.   In the event of a successful claim, 
the PPI wouldve paid Mr S mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mr S was 
unable to work due to being too unwell. It would have also covered  his repayments if 
he became unemployed. This would  have paid out alongside his employee  benefits 
Ref: DRN99649702and wouldve meant he could have used his sick pay benefits to pay for other 
essential costs.  
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mr Ss circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim  like any known health issues  or unusual 
employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop Mr S claiming the full 
benefit if he needed to. 
I note Mr Ss comments about  the fact he had endowment policies.  But he had taken 
on a significant  and long term financial commitment, which  was secured  on his home, 
on his own. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been serious 
for him.  And I think having the security that his repayments couldve been  made  if he 
was unable to work  wouldve been  important to Mr S. 
The PPI application  shows the monthly  cost of the policy. So Mr S wouldve been 
aware of how much  he was paying for it. And Ive not seen sufficient evidence that he 
couldnt afford the monthly payments or needed  to keep the costs  down. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr S, Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover. I dont  know  if Halifax  did point these 
things out. But Ive explained  why I think the PPI was right for him. And I dont think  clearer 
information wouldve  changed his decision. I think  he would still have bought  it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him. Which means Halifax  doesnt have 
to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr S feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Hes put time and effort  
into his complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised, but taking 
everything into account, I dont think Mr S lost out as a result of anything Halifax  mightve  
done wrong. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Halifax does not have to pay back  all the costs  of the 
PPI to Mr S. 
But Halifax  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Ref: DRN99649703Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9964970