K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) have  rejected her claim under her
travel insurance policy for lost baggage  because  she couldnt provide proof of ownership of
the items  that were lost.
background
Mrs R went on a coach holiday. When she was dropped off at her final destination, she 
found that her suitcase  was no longer in the storage compartment  of the coach.  The coach 
driver said it was likely it had been  removed  at an earlier stop by mistake.
Mrs R made  a claim on her travel insurance for the suitcase and its contents. This included  a 
camera that cost her £200. IPA rejected the claim. It said the camera  wouldnt be covered 
because it was a valuable item and was left unattended. Further,  it said the rest of the claim 
wouldnt be covered  either, because Mrs R was unable to provide anything to prove she 
owned the items contained in the suitcase.
Mrs R didnt think this was fair. She said the items in the suitcase werent things you would 
keep receipts for and any photos of them would  have been on the camera  that was in the 
suitcase. She complained  to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and agreed IPA acted fairly when rejecting the 
claim for the camera. However, she thought it should  settle  the claim for the other items, as it 
wasnt reasonable to expect  Mrs R to have the receipts.
IPA disagreed with this view. It said it wouldnt expect  Mrs R to have all the receipts, but to 
have some proof that she owned the items  in the suitcase. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2019. In the findings  section  I said the following:
IPA rejected the part of Mrs Rs claim for the camera because  she stored it in her luggage, 
which means it was left unattended, which it says it isnt covered under the policy.  I can see 
in the policy  it says under the baggage section Valuables left unattended at any time unless
In a hotel safe,  safety deposit  box or in your locked accommodation will not be covered. I 
therefore agree that this part of Mrs Rs claim isnt covered.
IPA has said it rejected the other  part of Mrs Rs claim  because  she hasnt been able to 
provide proof of ownership of the items contained  in her suitcase. I can see that there  is a 
condition under the baggage claims section of the policy. It says You must provide (at your 
own expense) an original  receipt or proof of ownership for items  lost, stolen or damaged to 
help you to substantiate your claim. So I agree this is a condition  of the policy.  However, I 
also need to decide if IPA have applied this condition fairly in this case.
Mrs R has provided receipts for replacement toiletries she has bought, a police report  and 
correspondence with the travel company who organised the coach trip about the incident. I 
therefore think she has provided enough evidence  to prove  that she has lost a suitcase. IPA 
also hasnt disputed this. So, on the basis I accept a suitcase was lost, it follows I accept she 
lost the items it contained for a four night stay.
Ref: DRN92784772IPA says the reason it asked for proof  of ownership for items claimed for was to substantiate 
the claim.  I understand the need for IPA to ask for extra evidence, in order to protect  itself 
from false or exaggerated claims. However, I think Mrs R has provided enough evidence to 
substantiate this claim  without the need for receipts. I have already mentioned,  she has 
provided enough to prove  she lost a suitcase.  I think she has also provided a reasonable 
breakdown of items contained in it.
Mrs R has listed  a number of items of clothes,  underwear and toiletries that would match 
what Id expect for a four night  stay. She has also estimated the costs of the items and I 
think these estimates are reasonable. For example, Mrs R has estimated her perfume at a 
cost of £20. Perfume  can be very expensive, so if she was being dishonest  with her claim 
she could have estimated the cost to be much  higher. If her claim included items  that were  
unusual or the costs  provided were high,  I might agree that more  evidence was needed. But, 
that isnt the case  here. I therefore  think Mrs R has already provided enough evidence to 
substantiate her claim for the items that were  in her suitcase.
Further to this, I have  considered Mrs Rs explanation that she hasnt got receipts for the 
items in her suitcase. From looking at the items  she has described, this seems reasonable.
Her suitcase  contained toiletries, clothes and underwear. These  are all items that the 
average person  wouldnt retain receipts for and probably wouldnt even remember  buying to 
provide bank statements for the date. I therefore dont think it is reasonable for IPA to rely on 
the abovementioned  policy term in this case.
It therefore follows that, for the reasons I have outlined, I dont think its fair for IPA to decline
Mrs Rs claim for her suitcase and the items  in it, apart from her camera, based on her not 
being able to prove ownership. I therefore  intend to uphold her complaint and require IPA to 
settle her claim, excluding  the camera, subject to the policy  terms and limits and less the £50 
excess.
I have also considered the distress IPA has caused Mrs R. Having a claim turned down on 
the basis that she was unable  to substantiate  it, would have been very frustrating for Mrs R, 
especially as she had provided everything  she was able to. She then had to justify  why she 
didnt have receipts for items that an average  person  would be unlikely to retain receipts  for.
I therefore think IPA has caused Mrs R a moderate level of distress and inconvenience  and 
intend to require it to pay £100  compensation, in line with similar cases  this service has 
considered. I also intend  to require IPA to pay 8% simple  per year interest from the date of 
the loss until the settlement is paid on any valid claim, to compensate Mrs R for being 
without the funds.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mrs R responded to say that she agrees with the decision but thinks her camera  would have 
been secure in her suitcase. However,  she accepts  that the policy doesnt cover it in the 
circumstances.
IPA responded  to say that although  it has agreed  to cover the claim, this is as a gesture of 
goodwill as it is outside of its terms and conditions, so would usually be declined. It therefore  
doesnt agree that it should  pay Mrs R compensation. 
Ref: DRN92784773my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the terms and conditions  of the policy  outline  that proof of ownership  is 
required for all claims.  However,  having  considered the circumstances of Mrs Rs claim, I 
dont think IPA applied  this term fairly here for the reasons  I outlined  in my provisional 
decision. It is for this reason that I think IPA should  pay Mrs R £100 compensation and I 
have seen no reason to depart from this view. I therefore still think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mrs Rs complaint is for me to uphold it and require IPA to settle the claim for the 
suitcase, excluding the camera, less the £50 excess. I also still think IPA should pay Mrs R 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and to require Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA to:
Settle her claim for the suitcase, excluding  the camera,  in accordance  with the claims
settlement terms in the policy  and less the £50 excess.
pay interest at 8% simple  per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement is paid, 
on any valid claim. *
Pay Mrs R £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. This should  be paid
within 28 days of us telling them that Mrs R has accepted my final decision. If Inter
Partner Assistance  SA pay later than this it must  also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman
*If Inter Partner Assistance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much  its taken  off. It should also give
Mrs R a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9278477