K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out with a regulated mortgage 
in 2009. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case.
At this point, I think that it may be useful  for me to highlight that where evidence is 
incomplete or matters  are in dispute  as they are here  I look at what is more likely  than 
not to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances at 
the time.  With this in mind and having thought  about everything Ive seen here,  Im not 
upholding Mr Gs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr Gs signed mortgage application form confirmed that he wanted accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover  (MPPI) with a 12 month  claim period. And Mr Gs mortgage  offer as 
well as his policy illustration also confirmed  that he was opting  to take optional MPPI cover. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, I think  that its more likely than not 
Mr G chose to take the MPPI knowing that he didnt  have  to have it if he didnt want to. 
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the MPPI to Mr G. So I dont  think  it had to check 
if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to 
decide this for himself.  
Ive thought about whether Mr G was given  all the information he shouldve been.  And Im 
open to the possibility that he wasnt. Mr G mightve  been entitled to some  sick pay if hed 
been off sick from work and he may have had some savings. But, in any event, the policy 
wasnt means tested and wouldve paid out in addition to this. The MPPI also provided  
unemployment cover. So I think that the policy couldve  provided  a useful safety net if he 
were to have lost his job suddenly  especially as it was protecting  the payments to his 
mortgage. 
I also think its likely that Mr G couldve and probably  shouldve been given clearer  
information on things  such as the cost of the policy.  But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mr G couldnt afford the premiums. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr G 
wouldve been affected by the main limitations   he was eligible for the policy, appears  to 
have been in good health and he was working.  
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that if Nationwide had given Mr G clearer or better 
information, it wouldnt have made  a difference  to his decision  to take out MPPI. I think  better 
information wouldve  simply  shown  Mr G that the MPPI  was right for him, for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN93845682already explained above. So I think that Mr G wouldve still taken  out the MPPI even if he 
had been provided with all the information he shouldve been.
Id like to reassure Mr G that Ive thought about  everything hes told us. But having done that, 
I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold  to him. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9384568