K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says it wasnt made clear  the policy was optional. Mrs B took out the PPI at the same  
time as applying for her credit card online.  Barclays has given me a screen shot showing 
what their online process  was for selling PPI at the time. This shows  Mrs B was given  
different options  of what type of PPI she wanted,  as well as the option to decline PPI 
altogether. Mrs B selected to take life and unemployment cover.  On balance, I think  Barclays 
made it clear  that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. 
Mrs B says she had good sick pay and a separate health insurance  policy.  But the PPI didnt 
provide this type of cover  so I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the 
policy. Instead, the policy couldve covered her for up to 12 months if she was made  
redundant. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN98302412my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9830241