K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the length of time it took Ageas Insurance Limited  to deal with his 
home insurance claim for water damage.
background
In December 2017 Mr A was informed by the water board that due to the amount of water  he 
was using he had a possible leak. The water board was unable to come out until after 
Christmas. On 18 January  2018  it attended  and told Mr A he had a leak from an internal pipe 
which appeared to be quite severe. Mr A reported the matter to Ageas  in January and was 
advised to get the leak fixed and to come  back to it if it appeared the damage  was in excess  
of £1,000. Mr A employed a plumber to fix the leak, which  was done around 25 January. 
However the plumber  needed to return after the floor had dried  and couldnt do so until 
March. He established that the damage was likely  to be severe  and couldnt  repair it. Mr A 
contacted Ageas again.
A loss adjuster  attended on 18 April 2018 and advised that it was likely the floor would have 
to be ripped up and the kitchen stripped out. They were made  aware that the plumber  had 
left a hole in the floor. From then very little was done about the claim. A survey was carried 
out in July and an estimate  for the work drawn  up in August.  But still no decision was made 
about liability and the hole remained in the kitchen floor. Mr A made  a complaint to Ageas. 
He explained  that the hole was a hazard, mice had been coming  into the home,  and that 
people had fallen  into the hole. Also his daughter had been admitted to hospital as she was 
unwell with respiratory issues, likely linked to the state of the home. Ageas arranged  for the 
hole to be boarded up.
Ageas then arranged for the surveyor to consider  the matter, and liability was accepted in 
October 2018. A further estimate of costs was drawn up and validated by the loss adjuster 
and agreed with Ageas by 30 October. Ageas advised Mr A that he and his family would 
need to move into alternative  accommodation,  as the work couldnt be carried  out safely with 
them still in the house. For the delays up until that date Ageas agreed to pay £400  
compensation.
Unfortunately, despite Ageas agents contacting  Mr A a number of times in the months  that 
followed, no suitable alternative  accommodation could be found,  Mr A turned down every  
offer. Eventually Ageas said it had decided to offer Mr A a cash settlement. which was put to 
him on 17 April. After he queried  figures  for the alternative accommodation,  he accepted  a 
cash settlement on 22 May 2019.
Mr A had contacted  this service in November 2018  concerning the fact that no action had 
been taken on his claim.
I issued a provisional decision. I upheld  the complaint and proposed  that Ageas pay Mr A 
compensation of £1,000, a further £600  in addition to what it had already paid.
Ageas accepted my decision. Mr A hasnt commented any further on my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90526502The following  were my provisional findings:
Mr A made  his complaint  to this service in December 2018, when Ageas was still dealing 
with his claim. Our investigator  looked  at matters up until the final response letter  of 
27 November 2018. But as the claim has now been  concluded I think  it appropriate to look at 
the case until its conclusion in May 2019.
Its clear that there were long delays in dealing with what appeared to be a serious  escape  of 
water. For the first two months after Mr A reported the claim Ageas  had agreed  to consider 
the claim further after he had the leak repaired. He didnt in fact get back  to Ageas until after 
21 March 2018.  I dont think Ageas can be held responsible for the initial delays  in getting 
the claim under way.
When the loss adjuster  visited in April 2018, they wouldve been aware that there  was a 
large hole in the floor which had been  left there  by the plumber who repaired the leak, and of 
its hazardous position. Yet no attempt was made  to cover it or carry out a temporary repair.  
As far as I can see, the next visit was in mid-July  2018 when a surveyor  reported  on the 
damage. I understand that liability was an issue in that it was thought  that the house may 
have had existing  damp problems. An estimate  of works was drawn up in August 2018.
But no action appears to have been  taken in response to the surveyors report. Mr A had 
cause to complain in September that nothing was happening  and that his daughter  was 
suffering from a respiratory problem, likely caused  by the house being open to the elements  
where the hole was. He also said that mice were coming in and that his daughter and mother 
in law had fallen because  of the hole.  Although  Ageas  then arranged  for the hole to be 
boarded over, this should have been done after the loss adjusters attendance in April.
It appears that following Mr As complaint further  action  was taken by Ageas to decide on the 
question of liability as it was referred back to the surveyor. Ageas agreed to accept  liability  
and a further estimate was drawn up on 15 October which was approved by the end of 
October 2018.
But from November 2018 its clear that Ageas agents made a number of attempts to find 
suitable alternative accommodation  for Mr A and his family, all of which were rejected. 
Unfortunately ideal accommodation  that is going  to be available on a short let is going  to be 
hard to find and it might case  inconvenience  for access  to facilities, schools etc. I dont think 
that Ageas is responsible for the delays  in the case after November 2018  until the settlement 
in May 2019.
I think that in the early  stages of the claim Ageas was responsible for long delays. In 
particular it took three  months to get a surveyor out to the property and then a further three  
months before Ageas agreed to accept liability. It should also have taken action earlier over 
the hole in the floor and this inaction  was, I think,  likely to have been partly  responsible  for 
Mr As daughters illness. Taking  those factors into account and the awkward living 
conditions (though  Mr A and his family were still in the home)  I think that £1,000 would be an 
appropriate award of compensation. This includes the £400 already paid so Ageas would 
have to pay a further  £600.
I understand this figure is considerably less than our investigators recommended  figure but I 
think its in line with awards we have made in similar  cases. 
Ref: DRN90526503As neither party has any further comments to make on my provisional findings,  and Ageas  
has accepted  my proposed compensation award, those findings are now final and form part 
of this final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Ageas Insurance  Limited to pay to Mr A £1,000 
compensation. This includes the £400 already  paid so Ageas has to only pay a further £600.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9052650