K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont consider a claim she raised under s.75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
background
In 2007 Mrs D purchased  membership of a holiday club run by a company I shall refer to as 
H. She said she paid a deposit  of over £2,000 using her HSBC credit  card and later paid the 
balance of over £8,000  using her debit card. 
Mrs D said over the next few years  she had a number of problems booking holidays and 
ended up paying  even more money out as H did not keep to the agreement.  She later 
realised the company was fraudulent. She believed she had been mis-sold  the holiday club, 
the sale was aggressive  and she wasnt informed  of the 14 day cooling off period or her 
cancellation rights. She brought a complaint to HSBC to pursue a claim for her under s.75 of 
the CCA.   
HSBC said it was unable  to help. It said as the transaction took place in 2007 the joint 
liability against the bank could not be claimed  as the purchase  fell outside of the six year 
time frame. 
Mrs D complained to HSBC in July 2017 and asked they provide their final
response on the matter.  As HSBC did not provide a final response including referral  rights to 
this service she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that HSBC  hadnt  done  anything wrong by telling Mrs D that it 
couldnt help her. She noted  that Mrs D was unable to provide any of the information relating 
to the purchase  of the holiday club membership nor evidence  that her HSBC credit card was 
used; these being important bits of information needed to consider the merits of Mrs Ds 
claim under s. 75. 
Mrs D asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  She said she was not aware of the 
relevant laws, regulations or rules regarding how to make a claim against H and could not 
have known about time limits for a s.75 claim or indeed a chargeback claim, as this was 
another option for Mrs D. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs D but having done  so I wont  be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
I can see that this situation  has caused Mrs D and her husband a great deal of worry. This is 
understandable as she had expected  to enjoy many holidays and instead has lost a 
substantial amount of money. 
Mrs D has complained that HSBC will not investigate her s.75 claim. As the investigator has 
explained if a customer paid by a credit  card, under  s.75 of the CCA a customer can hold the 
finance provider  responsible for the product  or service as if the provider were  the seller  of 
the goods or services, and try getting  their money  back from the credit provider. But there is 
a time limit by which time a claim should be made,  which is six years from the event being 
Ref: DRN90829092complained about.  Unfortunately  while I dont dispute Mrs Ds version  of events I cant  see 
any evidence that Mrs D purchased the holiday club using her credit  card nor has she 
provided any of the purchase documents.
HSBC doesnt  keep statements going back further than six years so it has no record of either  
the credit  card transaction, which would be relevant for a s. 75 claim, or the debit card 
transaction which would be relevant for a chargeback claim. In order to take either  claim 
forward it would be important to establish  that HSBC is the correct  business to either be held 
jointly liable under s. 75 of the CCA  or to put through a chargeback claim to the card 
provider. Mrs D has provided  a bank statement which shows £2,575  was paid out of her 
account by cheque in June 2007.  She said she used  this cheque to pay off her HSBC  credit 
card, which shed used  to make the deposit  to H. Again, I am not disputing this but it would 
be unfair of me to hold HSBC responsible based  on this evidence  alone. 
Mrs D has also confirmed she no longer has any of the information relating to her purchase 
of membership. This is unfortunate  as the information would be needed to establish the 
nature of the contract  Mrs D entered into and identify any differences  in what  was promised 
in the contract  and what was eventually delivered; which would help determine whether the 
contract was mis-sold  and would establish  a timeline  for HSBC to be confident  the event was 
within six years. 
Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to support a s.75 claim even if the claim was 
made within the six year time frame. Mrs D has told us that she was completely  unaware of 
any time limits for complaints and would like me to take this into account. I do sympathise 
with Mrs D. I am able to depart from the law under certain circumstances where I deem  it fair 
and reasonable to do so. Unfortunately with the lack of a paper trail I dont believe it is fair to 
do so here.  Nor do I believe  a chargeback  claim is appropriate for Mrs Ds debit card 
transaction as the chargeback cannot  exceed  540 days from the transaction processing 
date. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme  and the rules are set by the card provider. So while 
I realise this is not the news Mrs D was hoping for I dont  believe HSBC has acted 
unreasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9082909