K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr S took out 5 Uncle Buck  loans between September 2015  and August 2016. Theyve all 
been repaid. Heres  a table showing more information:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 27 September  2015 15 January 2016 3 £350 £179.63
2 30 January 2016 15 April 2016 3 £300 £137.46
3 
132021
9 
132021
9 
13202191320219
10 May 2016 16 May 2016 3 £150 £78.83
4 02 June 2016 15 August 2016 3 £100 £45.00
5 25 August 2016 15 September 2016 3 £300 £142.56
Mr S told us that hed become dependent on payday  loans and was stuck in a cycle of 
borrowing to repay  previous loans. 
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable that Uncle Buck  agreed the first two loans - 
but he felt that loans  3 -5 shouldnt have been  given to Mr S. 
So our adjudicator recommended that Uncle Buck should refund all interest and charges that 
Mr S had paid on loans 3, 4 and 5. And he said Uncle Buck should remove  any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to loans 3 and 4  and all information  
about loan 5. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed with our adjudicators view. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN97957582But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked Mr S to 
provide details of his income and to tell Uncle Buck what  he normally  spent each  month  
including what he was paying for other borrowing. 
As well as this, Uncle Buck often carried out credit  file checks  and it adjusted the figures 
where it thought  it helpful to try and reflect real life financial circumstances as accurately as 
possible. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks. They dont show  anything  that I think  
should reasonably have  made Uncle Buck think loan 1 wasnt affordable  for Mr S. When  he 
took out loan 1 Uncle Buck could  see that Mr S had a couple of other  short term loans 
outstanding. But I think that the repayments that Mr S had agreed  to make on loan 1, even 
bearing in mind the other credit  he was paying, looked comfortably affordable compared to 
the income that hed declared  to Uncle Buck. 
Ref: DRN97957583In saying this, I've noted that Mr S appears to have made the final repayment  on loan 1 a 
few weeks after the due date. But looking at Uncle Bucks notes, the reason for this appears 
to be that the final repayment date was missed  because Mr S changed his bank card. When  
Uncle Buck  contacted Mr S and updated the card details it held for him it took a payment  
that settled the loan.  So I dont think Uncle Buck  had any reason at that stage to think  that 
Mr S was finding it hard to afford the loan. 
It doesnt look like Uncle Buck carried out any credit  checks when it agreed  loan 2. But 
I dont think at that stage  Uncle Buck had any reason to think it needed to do credit  checks. 
And given  the repayment amounts for loan 2, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  this loan.
When he asked for loan 3, Uncle Buck says it noted this about  Mr Ss financial  
circumstances:
2 current short term loans
Balance of £218  on short  term loans
No overdue accounts  in last 50 days
Total loan balances  were  £3043, round 1.21 times Mr Ss net monthly  income, this is not 
excessive.
Total active  balances at the time were  less than 3 times Mr Ss net monthly income.
Uncle Buck  says it had no particular reason  to probe  Mr S further. But by loan 3, although he 
was taking out a smaller loan this time, this was still Mr Ss third Uncle  Buck loan in 
8 months. Except for a few weeks in between loans, Mr S had been indebted to Uncle  Buck 
since September 2015. So I think this shouldve prompted Uncle Buck  to think carefully 
about whether  he was using the money  it was lending Mr S for its intended purpose of 
providing emergency cover for short term or unexpected cash flow problems. 
And looking at the credit  checks  that Uncle Buck has sent us, I think our adjudicator is 
correct in saying  that by the time Mr S applied for loan 3 he actually had at least three other 
short term high cost loans  outstanding.  When he took out loan 3 on 10 May 2016 it appears 
to me that Mr S was already paying for another short term high cost loan set up in 
January 2016  and two loans that started in April 2016. And he had a number of other 
unsecured loans that look like they too mightve been similar high cost credit  loans. 
So whilst its true to say that loan 3 was for a smaller amount than loans 1 and 2, I think  
overall it looked like Mr Ss dependency  on high cost credit was increasing.
Looking at what Uncle Buck could see about Mr Ss finances, I think Uncle  Buck ought to 
have realised that when he asked for loan 3, this indicated that Mr S was having problems 
managing his money. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely Mr S would be 
able to repay this, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner.  So I think that ought  to 
have prompted  Uncle Buck  to decline Mr Ss application for loan 3.
Ref: DRN97957584Ive taken into account that Mr S repaid loan 3 early  (around  6 days  after he took it out). But 
he then borrowed again, just a couple  of weeks later. So for me, this is an indication that 
Mr Ss finances were erratic and he was struggling to manage his money  on a well planned 
basis. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ss lending  with Uncle Buck  to see if there was a 
point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen  that further lending was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck shouldve  realised that it wasnt 
reasonable to lend more money  to Mr S. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that by loan 5 Uncle  Buck 
shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to continue lending  to Mr S. I say this because:  
Uncle Buck shouldve been concerned that Mr S had by then been indebted to Uncle 
Buck for around 11 months 
So Uncle  Buck  shouldve seen that it was likely that Mr S wasnt borrowing to cover a 
short term or unexpected money  problem. Instead, it looked like he had ongoing  cash  
flow difficulties. And he had to keep borrowing each time to cover the hole in his 
finances left by repaying earlier  loans.  This suggests that Mr S couldnt sustainably 
afford to repay what he had borrowed without borrowing again. 
Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says between loans 3 and 4 there was a non 
borrowing gap of 16 days. But this doesnt  affect  my overall view. I dont think  this 
gap was long enough to enable Uncle  Buck  reasonably  to say that Mr Ss financial 
circumstances had improved significantly during  that period. 
Ive also taken into account Uncle Bucks view that there was no consistent pattern of 
increasing borrowing. And I agree that its fair to say that Mr Ss loans from Uncle 
Buck got smaller each  time  but only up until loan 5. And, as mentioned above, this 
didnt take account  of other loans he was taking out with other  providers  which  
Uncle Buck also knew  about.  Looking at his overall pattern of lending, I cant fairly 
say that Mr Ss borrowing significantly and consistently reduced over a reasonable 
period of time. 
I think Uncle Buck shouldve seen that it looked like Mr S wasnt  making any real 
inroads to the amount  he owed.  
I think that Mr S lost out when Uncle Buck provided  loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short term use over an extended period of time. 
the length of time over which Mr S had been  borrowing  from Uncle Buck  was likely to 
have negative implications on his ability to access mainstream  credit  and kept Mr S 
in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So, overall, Im planning on upholding Mr Ss complaint about loan 3 onwards. 
Ref: DRN97957585what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr S hasnt sent me anything further.
Uncle Buck  has responded to say that it was entitled  to rely on the information  its credit 
checks showed  which suggested Mr S had 2 active short term loans  balances   and it 
made its lending  decision  on that basis. Uncle Buck also says that borrowing for 11 months 
does not suggest persistent reliance on this sort of credit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  hasnt sent me any new information. And although I've thought carefully about 
what it said, for the reasons I explained more  fully in my provisional decision, had Uncle 
Buck carried  out sufficient  proportionate checks before  agreeing this loan, I think it shouldve 
seen that loan 3 was unsustainable for him and declined Mr Ss application for this loan, and 
the loans that followed.  
And I still think that his overall pattern of lending by loan 5 demonstrated  reliance on this 
type of high cost credit   hed been borrowing  for 11 months, so it was clear  he wasnt  using 
the money to fix short term money problems or a temporary cash  flow difficulty. 
As no further  comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision.  
putting things right  what the lender should  do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loans 3, 4 and 5 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information  about  loans 3 and 4
the length of time hed been  borrowing  by loan 5 means any information recorded 
about this loan is adverse. So all entries about  loan 5 should be removed from Mr Ss 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. 
Uncle Buck must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN97957586my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9795758