K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the delays by Selectapension  Bureau Services  Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of CFP Management Limited) in processing his pension transfer. 
He says the delays resulted in the guaranteed date being missed, and the subsequent 
transfer value  was lower.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2021. The background and
circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons  why I was minded to uphold it were  set out 
in that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider.
Mr B said he would have  liked the new quote  to have been at an earlier date,  but that he had 
nothing further  material to add. CFP Management  Limited said that it had no further 
comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision that the complaint  should  be upheld.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision attached,  my final decision is 
that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
I order CFP Management Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr B as I set out in 
my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN98175502Copy of Provisional  Decision
Complaint
Mr B has complained about the delays by Selectapension Bureau Services Limited (an Appointed 
Representative of CFP Management Limited)  in processing his pension transfer. He says the delays 
resulted in the guaranteed  date being missed,  and the subsequent transfer value was lower.  
background
Mr B obtained  a cash equivalent transfer value  (CETV) from his occupational pension scheme  (OPS) 
in January 2017. A letter to Mr B from the OPS  dated  9 January 2017 said that the transfer value was 
£598,058 and guaranteed until 9 April 2017. It said Mr B was entitled to one guaranteed CETV within 
a 12-month period. The letter included a Statement  of deferred benefits which set out Mr Bs accrued 
pension benefits  and also provided information about the scheme.
Mr B had a meeting with an IFA on 13 February 2017 to discuss the possibility of transferring these  
final salary  benefits. The IFA didnt  have the required  regulatory permissions to advise  on the transfer,  
so it introduced Mr B to Selectapension.
A further meeting took place on 20 February 2017. Mr B agreed for Selectapension and the IFA to 
proceed with the transfer. Mr B signed Selectapensions  client agreement on the same date.  I 
understand Selectapension  received Mr Bs transfer pack from the IFA on 24 February 2017. 
Selectapension then e-mailed  the IFA on 28 February 2017 sending copies of the Client Agreement  
and the Introducing  Adviser  Agreement.
Selectapension wrote  to Mr B on 6 March 2017 thanking him for using  its service  to review his 
pension entitlement. The letter said it was writing to the OPS for further information  to enable it to 
complete its review. It said it would normally expect to issue  its report within  eight weeks of having 
received all the relevant information from the scheme Trustees. 
The letter went onto say that if it recommended  a transfer and the process  went  beyond  the transfer 
value guarantee date, the Trustees may require  the transfer value  to be recalculated and may require  
a fee for doing  so. It also said the revised transfer value could go up or down. Selectapension also 
wrote to the OPS  on the same day requesting additional information about the scheme.
The OPS responded to Selectapension on 20 March 2017. Whilst  it provided some of the information 
requested, it confirmed that it had already  issued a transfer  quote to Mr B and so Selectapension 
should seek  to obtain information from him. In addition, it confirmed that further information on the 
scheme, including the most recent summary funding statement, could be found on its website.
Selectapension asked the IFA to obtain the information  from Mr B. And the IFA e-mailed CFP 
Management Ltd with the information on 28 March 2017. Mr B received an update from the IFA on 31 
March 2017. The IFA said Selectapension was working  on a transfer value  analysis.
The deadline for the CETV  passed on 9 April 2017.
Selectapension contacted the OPS for additional  information again  on 11 April 2017.  The OPS 
responded on 12 April 2017 referring it back to the information it had provided to Mr B and to its 
website.
   
Selectapension has said that an initial transfer value analysis was carried  out in May 2017 and 
checked on 6 June 2017. It said its analysis  team were still not convinced that it had sufficient  details 
of Mr B's actual scheme benefits and it wouldnt have issued a recommendation  report  without final 
confirmation of these.
Ref: DRN98175503Selectapension has said it was visited by the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority)  on 14 June 2017. It 
said it agreed not to issue any further transfer reports until it had reviewed  those already issued. It 
said this meant requesting additional information from clients.
The IFA e-mailed Selectapension on 19 June 2017 asking when Mr B could expect his 
recommendation report. He said although he appreciated it was extremely busy  Mr B was getting  
quite concerned. 
Selectapension responded  to say the case had been passed to an adviser on 7 June  2017 for the 
recommendation to be prepared, issued  and checked. It said it allowed 4-5 weeks for that process.
On 20 June 2017 Selectapension e-mailed the IFA to say it was expected the adviser would issue the 
report at the beginning  of July. And I understand this information was passed onto Mr B.
Selectapension e-mailed the IFA on 6 July 2017. It apologised that it couldnt give any timescales as it 
was currently  reviewing all its files. It said although it understood this was very frustrating it was an 
FCA requirement.
Selectapension said it requested further information from the IFA on 17 July 2017.  It said this was in 
accordance with the additional information  it needed for those clients it hadnt yet carried out a review 
for (which followed  from the FCA visit). And it received  that information on 26 July 2017. 
On 7 August 2017 the IFA e-mailed  Mr B saying  that Selectapension  had given the following options 
in relation to the transfer; to leave the case with Selectapension but wait for potentially 3 months for 
reports to be issued,  or leave Selectapension free of charge and use another  pension  specialist.
Mr B replied saying that he would not be moving forward with Selectapension. He subsequently 
contacted a new independent financial  adviser  (IFA).
Mr B has said he requested a new CETV on 22 August 2017. The OPS  sent a new CETV  to Mr B on 
4 September 2017 which had a guaranteed transfer value of £515,994. It had a guarantee date of 30 
November 2017. Mr Bs pension was transferred  on 24 October 2017.
Mr B complained to Selectapension. He said he felt it was responsible  for him having  to accept  the 
reduced CETV. Selectapension said that it had made Mr B aware from the outset of the timescales 
involved and that the guarantee date may not be met. Further, it was of the understanding that a new 
CETV couldnt be obtained  until January  2018. 
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and considered it should be upheld. He accepted 
that the guarantee date of 9 April 2017 could  not have been  met given the delays in Mr B seeking 
advice. However,  he noted that Selectapension continued to lead Mr B to believe that his pension 
transfer was in progress before making him aware of the options  available to him on 7 August 2017. 
In his view, Selectapension  had effectively delayed  Mr B in requesting a further CETV and 
transferring his pension using the new adviser.  As result,  he felt that Selectapension should  request a 
CETV from the OPS  based  on the date Mr B wouldve received  it if there hadnt been any delays in 
making him aware that it wasnt processing the transfer of his pension. Selectapension should then 
calculate the difference and compensate Mr B for any potential  losses.  
Selectapension didnt agree. In brief, it said that it intended to issue a transfer report  to Mr B based on 
the outdated CETV for information purposes. It would then have looked to transfer  his pension after 
requesting a new CETV in January 2018. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion  on the complaint.  He felt that if it had been 
the case  that a report was to be issued for information purposes only, then Mr B shouldve been made  
aware of this. Selectapension had failed to manage Mr Bs expectations and enable  him to make an 
informed decision about the matter, therefore causing delays in him transferring his pension. 
Ref: DRN98175504my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Bs first CETV was dated 9 January  2017 and expired on 9 April 2017. Mr B only agreed for 
Selectapension to act for him on 20 February 2017  about six weeks into the guaranteed period of 
just over 12 weeks. Selectapension had alerted Mr B that it would normally expect  to issue its report  
within eight weeks of having received all the relevant information from the schemes Trustees. There  
were only just over six weeks of the guarantee period remaining when Mr B first instructed 
Selectapension. Whilst this didnt mean it wasnt possible to arrange the transfer prior to the 9 April 
2017, I think  Mr B ought reasonably to have been aware it was a tight deadline, and probably unlikely  
the transfer would be arranged in time to secure that first CETV. 
In my view Selectapension  requested information from the Trustees in a timely manner. Although 
some of that information  may have been available  from the documentation  the Trustees had originally  
provided to Mr B, they did provide additional scheme details. Taking  everything into account, Im not 
persuaded that Selectapension  failed to act in a timely or unreasonable manner  up to the expiry date 
of the original  CETV on 9 April 2017. 
Once that deadline  had passed I understand Selectapension requested further information  from the 
OPS on 11 April 2017,  and received its response on 12 April.  Its not entirely clear  to me whether  
further information was requested from the scheme after this date, and if so what particular 
information and when. However Selectapension has said an initial transfer value analysis was carried 
out in May 2017 and checked on 6 June 2017. But that its analysis  team  were still not convinced it 
had sufficient  scheme  details. It said it wouldnt have  issued a recommendation report without final 
confirmation of these.
Selectapension has said:
Whilst we did have procedures in place to gather relevant information  in connection with pension 
reviews, the additional information we requested in July 2017  related to additional  'soft facts' that we 
required to complete  our review following  our meeting  with the FCA on 14 June 2017. From that point 
on we were in discussions  with the FCA which resulted in our update on 6th July, so we could not 
have had revised processes  in place before this time. This also meant that we were no longer  able to 
complete reviews within our previously disclosed timescales, i.e. within 8 weeks of having all of the 
relevant information from scheme Trustees,  as confirmed in the 6th July update.
Mr B was entitled  to expect  Selectapension to progress  the transfer in an efficient  and timely manner. 
Selectapension said that the transfer analysis was checked on 6 June 2017,  but then there appears to 
have been little work  on it. Although  its said it asked  Mr B for further information  on 17 July 2017, this 
appears to have been  resulting from the FCA visit  information  it should,  in effect, have already 
requested. I accept that the delays  may have been because of its workload  and the FCAs 
requirements. But prior to telling Mr B in August  2017 that it could be 3 months or more to provide a 
report, it had been telling him it would be just a few weeks. It also hadnt explained  it wasnt expecting 
to arrange the transfer/request another CETV before January 2018.
Ultimately, I agree with the adjudicator that there were delays by Selectapension  and, but for those  
delays, Mr B would have  requested a new CETV earlier.  I also agree  with the adjudicator that if it was 
going to issue a transfer  report on the outdated CETV for information purposes,  it should  have alerted 
Mr B to its intention so he could make an informed decision about  how he wanted to proceed.  In my 
view it should have done this following the transfer analysis checked on 6 June 2017. I understand 
the logic behind Selectapension gathering  enough information  to consider whether a transfer might be 
a viable  proposition. But I think at this point,  even allowing for any concerns that it needed additional  
information, it was in a position to have alerted Mr B to its intentions. As I have said above, there 
appear to have been  little work on Mr Bs transfer after this date. And its intention  to wait until 2018  to 
arrange the transfer  would  have been  significant to Mr B.
Ref: DRN98175505The adjudicator thought that Selectapension Bureau Services Limited shouldve  explained  the 
guarantee date of 9 April 2017 could not be achieved and agreed to request a new CETV on 28 
February 2017. He said allowing a reasonable period of two months for a CETV  to be issued, he 
thought this would have been received on 28 April 2017, with a guarantee date of 28 July 2017.
However in my view, I dont think Selectapension should have requested a new CETV  on 28 February  
2017. The original CETV was still in date and Selectapension  was in the process  of gathering scheme  
information. Once  requested the CETV is time sensitive. The OPS had said it would only provide one 
CETV per year. And a second CETV usually comes  at a cost. So I dont think  it was unreasonable for 
Selectapension to continue to gather further information about the scheme and get a better  idea of the 
viability of a transfer at this point.  
However, as I have said above, I think Selectapension ought to have alerted  Mr B to its intentions  
after checking  the transfer analysis  on 6 June 2017. Allowing for a week to alert Mr B to its position  
would have taken until 13 June 2017.
After Mr B was told about  his options on 7 August  2017 he requested a new CETV  which I understand 
was dated 30 August 2017  (given it expired on 30 November 2017). And the transfer was completed 
on 24 October 2017.
So I think if Mr B had been  told of Selectapensions position on 13 June  2017, including its reasoning  
that it understood the Trustees wouldnt  provide  another CETV until 9 January  2018,  Mr B would have 
made his own enquiries with the Trustees and instructed another adviser on the same timescales  as 
when he was told of his options on 7 August 2017.
In mirroring those timings  from 13 June 2017, Mr B would have  obtained a CETV dated  6 July 2017, 
and the transfer would have  completed on 30 August 2017.
So taking everything into account,  Im satisfied there were delays by Selectapension  which resulted  in 
the request for a CETV being at a later date.  Mr B may or may not have lost out financially  as a result 
of those delays. However I have set out how I think fair compensation should  be calculated below.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
I intend  to order that CFP Management Limited calculates whether  Mr B has suffered a loss, and if so 
pays compensation to Mr B, in the following manner. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in had Selectapension  Bureau Services Limited (representing CFP 
Management Limited) acted  in a timely manner. 
CFP Management Limited should ask the Trustees of Mr Bs former OPS to calculate what CETV  it 
would have offered as at 6 July 2017.  Any costs requested by the Trustees to calculate that CETV 
should be paid by CFP Management Limited. 
CFP Management Limited should then ask Mr Bs pension  provider how many units that transfer 
value would have bought if invested in the same funds and in the same proportions  as Mr B actually  
invested in, but as at 30 August 2017. 
If the number of units that would  have  been  bought  at 30 August 2017 is greater  than the number  
actually bought then Mr B has lost out. If the number of units that would have  been bought  at 30 
August 2017  was lower,  then Mr B hasnt lost out financially. 
Ref: DRN98175506CFP Management Limited should pay such amount as may be required by Mr Bs pension provider to 
buy those units in the scheme as at the date of a final decision.
If the CETV as at 6 July 2017 was higher,  and Mr B took 25% tax free cash following  the transfer,  
then allowance should be made  for this in the compensation by assuming Mr B took 25% of the 
difference in the figures as tax free cash, plus the remaining 75% used to buy the additional units. 
Interest at the rate of 8% simple should be added to tax free cash  that would have been paid to Mr B 
from 30 August 2017 to the date of a final decision. This should be paid to Mr B directly.
If the CETV at 6 July 2017  was lower, however it would have  bought more  units, CFP Management  
Limited should pay such  amount as may be required  by Mr Bs pension  provider to buy those  units in 
the scheme as at the date of a final decision. A deduction should be made  to the number of units 
bought to allow for any additional tax-free cash that Mr B received. This would equal 20% of the 
additional tax-free.  
Any payment to Mr Bs pension scheme should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
However CFP Management  Limited shouldnt  pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.  If CFP Management Limited is unable  to pay the 
compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income.  Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated  using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think  Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should  
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr B would  have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
I intend  to award  additional interest at the rate of 8% simple a year to the compensation calculated as 
at decision date if settlement isnt made within 56 days of CFP Management Limited being  notified of 
Mr Bs acceptance of any final decision.
Whether there is a financial  loss or not, CFP Management Limited  should  also pay Mr B £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience  Im satisfied the matter has caused him.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9817550