K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Nationwide Building  Society wont refund  the money that wasnt 
dispensed from a cash machine (ATM).
background
In January 2019 Miss K tried to withdraw £300  but the ATM didnt dispense the cash.  She 
says that it made the sound as if it was dispensing  the cash  but nothing  came out. She 
phoned Nationwide straight away to tell it what had happened. The transaction was debited  
to her account and Nationwide  has refused to refund  the money without Miss K giving it 
some proof of what happened.
Nationwide says that it has investigated and found that the cash  in the ATM balanced and 
there werent  any faults reported with the machine for that day. It wont  agree to refund the 
£300.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should  be upheld. She didnt think  that 
Nationwide had provided enough  information  to show that the £300 had been properly 
dispensed. She said it should  refund Miss K and pay statutory interest  at 8% p.a. simple on 
this amount.
Nationwide didnt agree.  It said that it had raised the transactions  with the ATM  owner but it 
had said the cash  in the machine balanced  and the transactions were good. It also 
questioned why, if Miss K had problems with that ATM before, she continued to use it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Miss K used her card to try to withdraw £300  from the ATM. She has 
been very clear  in saying that the machine didnt give her the money. She carried out a 
balance enquiry prior to requesting the money. When the ATM didnt dispense the money 
she immediately carried out another balance enquiry, which  showed that the money had 
debited her account. This is supported  by the evidence that Nationwide has provided, 
showing the two balance enquiries about two minutes apart with the cash withdrawal request 
in between. Miss K then called Nationwide  within  a few minutes to tell it what had happened.  
Nationwide has refused to refund the disputed transaction because it has said that the ATM 
owner says there werent any discrepancies with the ATM and it has provided evidence  of a 
successful transaction.  But it hasnt been able to provide  evidence  that the ATM balanced, 
when it was balanced or the purge bin reports.  
I consider the cash would balance if it had been dispensed into the purge bin rather than to 
Miss K. As Miss K has consistently said that the ATM made  a noise as if it were dispensing 
the cash. Whilst I cant be certain I do think its possible that this may have  happened.
Im not persuaded that the evidence provided  by Nationwide  is conclusive such that I can 
safely say that the cash was dispensed to Miss K that day. As Ive already explained, I would 
want to see the notes relating to the purge  bin to exclude the possibility that the money  didnt 
go in there  and also evidence that the ATM  balanced. 
Ref: DRN97726052Nationwide suggests  that perhaps  Miss K shouldnt have used that ATM  has she had a 
problem with it once  before.  But I dont  think that because someone  has experienced one 
problem with a particular machine that this should mean that it shouldnt  be used. I think 
Miss K has a reasonable expectation that the ATM would be properly serviced.
Nationwide has asked  the ATM provider a number of times to provide  the information  but it 
hasnt done so. Whilst I appreciate Nationwides frustration, it is its responsibility  to obtain all 
the necessary  evidence  when investigating an ATM  dispute. On this occasion it hasnt been  
able to provide  this so I think its only right that Nationwide  should refund the £300 to 
Miss Ks account and pay interest on this amount  to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide  Building  Society  to:
1.Refund £300 to Miss Ks account.
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772605