K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Oakam  Limited (Oakam) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans that Oakam provided to Mr A from June 2010 
onwards. Mr As last loan was provided in April 2012. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with loans 4 to 6. Oakam  disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
done so and having also looked at the overall  pattern  of Oakams lending  history with Mr A, I 
think that Oakam should reasonably have seen that Mr A was unlikely to have been able to 
make his payments  in a sustainable  manner  by the time it provided  loan 4. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr As pattern of borrowing, of coming back  for further 
funds shortly after having repaid previous loans, indicated  that his loans mightve  become 
unsustainable for him. And in these circumstances I would have expected Oakam  to have no 
Ref: DRN97882982longer simply accepted  what it was being told at face value but instead have taken steps to 
verify Mr As actual financial position. Had Oakam  have done this it would have seen  that   
Mr A clearly  didnt have the disposable  income to sustainably repay his loans and that is why 
he kept coming back for further funds. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im not persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for Oakam  to 
have provided  loans 4 to 6 to Mr A in the first place.
Mr A had to pay interest and charges on loans that Oakam shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Oakam should put things right.
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 4 to 6, including any amounts paid 
to any third-party debt purchaser;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loans  4 to 6, should any remain, should be removed from Mr As 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  Oakam  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. Oakam  Limited 
should pay Mr A compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9788298