K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Fairmead  Insurance Limited (Fairmead) handled an 
insurance claim they made under their buildings and contents  insurance policy.  
background
On 27 May 2018 the downstairs of Mr and Mrs Fs home was flooded.  Due to the bank 
holiday weekend they werent able to register the claim until 29 May 2018. Fairmead 
appointed loss adjustors (SCL)  who arranged a drying specialist (company P) to inspect the 
property. 
On 5 June 2018 company P advised  there was potentially asbestos in the property and a 
specialist company (company A) were  appointed  to review this. On 8 June 2018 company A 
confirmed asbestos  had been  detected in the lounge, hall and under stairs cupboard, so it 
would be necessary to remove  the asbestos.  The report didnt find any asbestos  in the 
kitchen at this time. 
Removal for the asbestos was planned for around  19 June 2018, but several items needed 
to be cleared from the house first, so the date was pushed  back.  It appears the asbestos 
was removed 22 June  2018. 
Mr F says company P then arranged dryers  to be taken to the property  on 26 June 2018.  A 
review of the drying works  on 3 July 2018 noted that skirting boards should  have  been  
removed beforehand, so the property  was still not dry due to the retention of moisture  in the 
skirting. 
During this time the scope of works needed to be reviewed to manage  the additional work 
required following the removal  of the asbestos.  And a site visit took place on 11 July 2018.
 
Drying works were completed on 13 July 2018, and around 17 July 2018 a scope of works 
was agreed. A copy of the schedule was given to Mr and Mrs F around 24 July 2018 and 
they were required  to pay an excess of £100  to start the works. Mr and Mrs F sent a cheque  
to the contractors (company L) on 31 July 2018.  
Early August 2018 Mr and Mrs F say they visited  Howdens to discuss  the replacement 
kitchen and said they wished to make  some changes to their existing layout. During these  
early weeks  in August  there appear to be several discussions between all the parties about 
the kitchen and whether company L would carry out private repairs to accommodate  the 
additional changes  to the kitchen. There were also various communications about the 
decoration choices and whether the front and patio doors needed replacing. There were also 
ongoing exchanges with Mr and Mrs F about the contents part of the claim. 
Towards the end of the month, company L maintained they would not carry out private works 
to the kitchen. Mr F says on 6 September 2018  he was still waiting to hear from company L 
to progress works at the property. 
For a period of time in mid-September 2018, Mr and Mrs F considered  sorting out the 
kitchen themselves and taking  a cash settlement. This was offered to them  around 12 
September 2018, but by 25 September 2018 they came back to SCL to say they would 
continue with company  L to sort things  out. 
Ref: DRN91385682From 25 September  2018 until around 11 October 2018 it appears there continued to be 
some disagreement  about  the works  and nothing further happened  to progress the claim at 
the property. When  contractor L returned  to the property,  there  was then some disagreement 
about whether  the kitchen tiles should  be removed. And Mr F expressed concern that the 
cooker connection plate had been  left live.
By 16 October 2018 the kitchen and the fireplace had been removed which led to the 
discovery of some further asbestos tiles which would need to be taken out before 
progressing any further with works. Company  A was arranged to visit the property again  on 
19 October 2019. But Mr and Mrs F say that when company A arrived, it seemed that, much  
to their concern,  company  L had already removed the affected tiles.  
At the end of October  2018 Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about what  had been happening was 
reviewed by Fairmead who agreed  things hadnt gone as well as they should have. 
Fairmead agreed to pay Mr and Mrs F £500 in recognition of this  which Mr and Mrs F 
didnt accept. And given  the amount of stripping out work, Fairmead  suggested a further site 
visit with all those involved to review  the next steps.  The visit was arranged  for 14 November 
2018. 
SCL attended the property on 14 November 2018, but company Ls surveyor  was unwell. 
What followed,  it seems,  was a significant period  of time where it appears company L and 
SCL tried to agree a scope of works  to move  forward with  including, it seems,  ongoing 
concerns over the kitchen works. 
From the submissions available it appears company L returned to work on the property  
around 13 February 2019. The kitchen was delivered at this time,  but the contractors 
discovered a major leak upstairs in the property spreading to the downstairs. Around this 
time the water system was drained. The leak was later treated as a second and separate 
claim under the policy for escape of water. 
When visiting the property  around 16 February 2019  Mr and Mrs F discovered  the wrong 
kitchen had been delivered  and partially installed. What  followed appears to be much debate 
between Mr and Mrs F and company  L about the wrong kitchen. 
On 25 February 2019 a loss adjustor was sent to assess  the damage  for the escape of water 
claim. And once more  it appears nothing really  happened on the property for a while. 
On 3 April 2019  a call took place between  SCL and Mr F to discuss  the options available in 
order to move things forward. And works go on hold while this is resolved. Its clear  SCL 
were at this point aware that the relationship  between Mr and Mrs F and company L had 
significantly deteriorated. Mr and Mrs F explored their options  with a solicitor  and, having 
already referred  their complaint to our service,  decided  to wait to hear on the progress of 
their complaint. 
Fairmead then contacted  Mr and Mrs F at various intervals to see if Mr and Mrs F were still 
waiting to see what would happen with their complaint and with any advice.  
At the end of October  2019 Fairmead agreed to change the contractors  and appointed 
contractor B to complete the outstanding  works. It looks like contractor B started around 3 
December 2019  and finished  in early February 2020.
Mr F arranged his own plumber to sort out the issue with the water  tank  which  had been 
the cause of the escape of water  - and replaced  the system with a combi  boiler.  
Ref: DRN91385683Mr and Mrs F told us they were back in their property from 21 February 2020. 
During the course of the claim Mr and Mrs F and their young  son were provided  with 
alternative accommodation. Initially they were  back and forth in hotels before being placed in 
self-catering accommodation. There were then some difficulties in finding  a suitable 
alternative home for the longer term and so Mr and Mrs F agreed to take a cash settlement 
for this of £6,000 to cover 6 months  from 22 July 2018. 
When the end of this period approached, Mr and Mrs F were  asked  to provide evidence of 
their tenancy  agreement or evidence to show the costs  they had paid for alternative 
accommodation. Mr and Mrs F said theyd never  been asked for this before and so didnt 
provide anything. Fairmead said no further funds would be paid for alternative 
accommodation without  receiving some evidence to support the costs  incurred. 
Mr and Mrs F also felt strongly during the course of the claim that their front and patio  doors 
should have been replaced  rather than repaired.  Fairmead offered a cash settlement for this 
part of the claim, but its not clear  to me whether  this was or wasnt accepted  by Mr and Mrs 
F who it appears felt the offer wasnt enough  to meet  the cost of new doors. 
Mr and Mrs F also made several complaints to Fairmead during the course of the claim. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  In summary: 
They felt Fairmeads  proposals to resolve Mr and Mrs Fs complaint at 9 November 
2018 were fair to recognise what had happened up until that point. 
They acknowledged  that from this point things  did not improve   there were issues 
with the kitchen, the wrong white goods being  delivered, problems with the hallway, 
landing and stairs, the lounge and skirting. And that not a lot progressed while 
variations to the works were  reviewed.  
The investigator noted poor communication with Mr and Mrs F. 
They also noted the relationship with company L broke  down. And while  company L 
didnt accept responsibility for all the issues with the kitchen,  they did acknowledge 
getting measurements wrong. The investigator did think however that Fairmead and 
their agents could have progressed  things  much sooner than they did with regards  to 
the kitchen and could have avoided  significant delays. 
The investigator said Fairmead could have acted  sooner to change  contractors  in 
light of the relationship breakdown  between Mr and Mrs F and company L. 
They concluded that overall, Fairmead  should pay Mr and Mrs F an additional £500 
to that previously offered by Fairmead (and which  Mr and Mrs F later confirmed  
theyd not previously accepted).
The investigator thought Fairmead was entitled to rely on the door specialists who 
said Mr and Mrs Fs doors could be repaired, rather than replaced. But that should Mr 
and Mrs F provide independent expert  advice  to the contrary it would be fair for 
Fairmead to review their position on this. 
They said it would not be fair to ask Fairmead to pay for any additional costs  for 
alternative accommodation or additional living costs without further evidence from Mr 
and Mrs F to support  they had incurred such costs following the 6 months Fairmead 
Ref: DRN91385684had already cash settled.  The investigator noted  that when Fairmead paid Mr and 
Mrs F the £6,000 for alternative accommodation, Fairmead had not requested any 
evidence to show what this was used to pay for. Because of this the investigator  
didnt think it fair to ask Mr and Mrs F for any evidence of alternative accommodation 
relating to this cash settlement. However, they thought  it fair that going  forward such  
evidence should  be provided as this was standard industry practice  in such  claims. 
The investigator made several attempts to obtain  further evidence  from Mr and Mrs F 
about their additional living and accommodation  costs, but as it was not forthcoming 
the investigator said they would review their position if Mr and Mrs F would provide it 
in response to the view. 
Fairmead replied to our investigators view and agreed to pay Mr and Mrs F a total of £1,000 
to resolve matters. They made no further commentary about the claim in relation to the 
doors. 
Mr F spoke  with our investigator (I have listened to this call). Mr F felt the opinion didnt 
properly reflect the amount of stress  and anxiety he and his family  had experienced. He said, 
amongst other things,  they had been  ignored for months and things  only ever progressed  
because he and Mrs F were chasing the parties  involved. 
Mr F reiterated a point hed made throughout the whole matter  that his neighbours had also 
experienced flooding to their homes but their claims had been resolved within 3 months. 
During the call Mr F explained that he and his family had been  staying with relations, and 
paying them  something for staying there.  But unfortunately  there was no formal arrangement 
to show for this. Mr F also talked about  the impact on his family  and in particular his son. 
Mr F later wrote to our investigator and requested an ombudsman review  the case. He and 
Mrs F continue to feel that theyve been  unfairly  and unsympathetically treated by all the 
parties involved in their claim all the way through. And Mr F explained they didnt think  the 
offer of a total £1,000  really reflected how much theyd suffered emotionally and mentally as 
a family  over almost  three years. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
outcome reached  by our investigator broadly  for the same  reasons. 
From reviewing the submissions it seems  to me that the claim was mostly settled when Mr 
and Mrs F were  able to return to their property, and aside from the front and patio doors and 
alternative accommodation costs, it seems  to me Mr and Mrs F are mostly  unhappy  that the 
financial compensation proposed to recognise the overall delays and distress  this matter  has 
caused them  and their family is not enough in the circumstances. So Ive considered  this first 
of all. 
Delays and distress 
Mr and Mrs F were  flooded out of their property in May 2018 and werent  able to return until 
February 2020. I am in no doubt  this would have been an unsettling  time for Mr and Mrs F 
and their young son while they were  unable to be at their home.  
Ref: DRN91385685As our investigator has already said, the nature of these types of claim carry with them an 
expectation there will be a period of unsettlement while things are put right in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And this is something which forms part of my 
considerations. For example, the unexpected discovery of asbestos in the property on two 
separate occasions meant that other  works needed to be put to the side while the matter  of 
asbestos was resolved.  And it was right that this should happen. 
However, Im also mindful of the occasions where it appears Mr and Mrs F chased the 
various parties involved in the claim to push things  forward. And that there  appeared to be 
poor communication between the other parties,  particularly  around matters to do with the 
ongoing revisions to the schedule of works and arrangements for the kitchen. Im satisfied 
that here unnecessary delays were caused  to the progress  of the claim. Particularly following 
the site visit in November 2018.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs Fs relationship  with the original contractor broke down to the 
point where it seems neither party were able to move forward together. And I think  further  
delays were caused here given Fairmeads awareness of this relationship  breakdown and 
Fairmeads failure to proactively change the contractors sooner than they in fact did. 
Ive not listed  all the things that have gone  on during the course  of this claim, but I have 
noted the submissions  from both parties  about  the exchanges theyve all had with each  
other. And its clear  that communications have not been managed  as well as they could have 
been. 
Ive also noted  the various  things that have happened to do with the delivery of incorrect  
goods and, on occasions, how the state of the house was left by Fairmeads agents following 
various visits to the property. All of which  I can see added to Mr and Mrs Fs overall worry 
and frustration with the claim. 
During the claim further issues  arose  with the property, such  as the escape of water (which 
rightly led to a separate claim) which then needed to be factored into the works   
complicated by the fact Mr F then required his own plumber to work together with the 
contractors to time their respective works. 
Ive carefully considered  the submissions and evidence  available to understand, as far as is 
reasonably possible, what happened  during  the time of the claim. There  is no prescribed 
way to decide what level of compensation is suitable  in such circumstances  as each 
situation is different.  So deciding  a figure  to recognise something that is, in part, a reflection 
of the emotional  impact  something has had, is a difficult thing to do. I understand Mr and Mrs 
F feel the proposed  £1,000 is not enough and I am aware through  their passionate 
submissions that they feel this sum doesnt  truly represent the overall stress, anxiety and 
disruption this has caused  them during the course  of this claim. 
But I have to take into account  there would be a degree of expected disruption that would 
cause upset, and this wasnt a straightforward claim given things came to light during the 
course of the claim and there were  several  parties involved including  Mr and Mrs F, who 
understandably given this was their home, had opinions on how things  should  be resolved. 
So while I agree with our investigator that £1,000 compensation  is fair in the circumstances 
of this case, I say this with no intention to be dismissive of Mr and Mrs Fs experience in this 
claim. 
Alternative accommodation 
Ref: DRN91385686At the outset of the claim, it was difficult to know how long Mr and Mrs F would be unable to 
live in their home. And so I think it was reasonable that they were in hotels initially,  before 
moving to a more  permanent arrangement.  
As the investigator  noted, given Fairmead wasnt initially clear enough with their 
expectations that Mr and Mrs F should  evidence their alternative  accommodation  costs,  I 
think it was fair that Mr and Mrs F werent  then asked by our investigator to provide  any 
evidence of how the cash settlement of £6,000 for alternative accommodation was spent. 
That said,  providing evidence of costs incurred in such a claim is industry  practice  so it 
was fair of Fairmead  to then ask for this once  the initial six month period had ended and this 
expectation was made  clear to Mr and Mrs F. This is not unusual.  
Since bringing the complaint to our service Mr and Mrs F have said that they have  been  
staying with family and while theyve said to our investigator that paying costs  at two 
properties was expensive for them  during the course  of the claim,  theyve said the 
arrangement they had with family  was informal and so there is no evidence  available to 
demonstrate any costs they were paying to family.  Mr and Mrs F also told our investigator 
about additional costs they incurred in relation to needing to pay for more petrol for example, 
but theyve been unable  to provide  any supporting evidence. 
Unfortunately, without something  to show the additional costs Mr and Mrs F have incurred 
since the six months that were paid for by the insurer,  Im unable to say that Fairmead 
should pay any more  in relation to alternative  accommodation  costs or any form of 
disturbance allowance. 
Doors 
Through the claim I can see Mr and Mrs F felt strongly that their front and patio doors should 
be replaced rather than repaired. The door experts,  company  M, appointed to look at the 
state of the doors concluded  that the doors could all be repaired. And I think it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to rely on the expert  here. As our investigator has noted,  should Mr 
and Mrs F be able to provide Fairmead with an independent  report stating otherwise, then I 
think it would  be fair of Fairmead to review this part of the claim, so long as Mr and Mrs F 
share this with Fairmead within  a reasonable time of any such report.  And as a minimum, if 
Fairmead have not already done  so, they should pay Mr and Mrs F the cash settlement 
figure in the meantime for Mr and Mrs F to use towards their doors  as they wish. 
Ref: DRN91385687my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited pay Mr and 
Mrs F £1,000 to recognise the delays and upset this matter has caused.  
 
In addition, if Mr and Mrs F obtain a specialist  report  relating to the matter with the front and 
patio doors,  then Fairmead should  review this part of the claim so long as it is shared with 
Fairmead within a reasonable timeframe. In the meantime, if Fairmead has not already done 
so, they should pay Mr and Mrs F the cash settlement figure, relating to the doors, for 
Mr and Mrs F to use towards their doors as they wish. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2021.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9138568