K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr L has said it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy 
of Mr Ls mortgage  and PPI applications.  The PPI was described as optional and 
Mr L needed to apply for it separately. Hed already had a mortgage for some time 
before he bought  the PPI. So I think Lloyds  made it clear that Mr L didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr Ls mortgage was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr L couldnt 
work for a long period  of time he may have found this difficult  to pay. As the 
mortgage was secured on his home,  Mr L couldve potentially lost his property  if he 
fell into financial difficulties.
The PPI wouldve paid Mr Ls mortgage payment if Mr L couldnt work  due to illness,  
or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition  to any employer,  or 
unemployment benefits, he might have received if this happened.  It couldve provided 
a payment for up to 12 months  per claim. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover. So he seems to have had a need  for the cover.   
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put him off taking out the cover.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
Ref: DRN97128582ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712858