K821x#15complaint
J, a company made up of three partners, complains about the decision made by The 
National Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited (NFU) to void its four insurance  
policies because of misrepresentation.
background
J held four insurance policies relating to its business. The policies were due to renew in 
April 2017. The partners  of J met with a representative from NFU (Mrs C) in March  2017 
prior to the renewals.  After that meeting, the renewals went  ahead.  
Later that year, there was a fire at Js business premises  and J made  a claim. During NFUs  
investigation of the claim,  it found  that one of the partners (who Ill call Mr B) had three 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded against him  one in 2014, one in 2015, and one 
in 2016. He also had a sequestration (bankruptcy) order  made against him in 2016. 
NFU said that J should have told it about Mr Bs CCJs and sequestration order before the 
policies renewed.  And if J had done so, it wouldnt have renewed the cover. NFU therefore 
turned down the claim and voided the policies back to the date of the 2017 renewal. It kept 
the premiums paid as it thought Js misrepresentation had been reckless.
J brought a complaint to this service. The partners said that Mrs C didnt ask them  about 
CCJs or bankruptcy at the renewal meeting, so they didnt know  they needed to tell NFU 
about these. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she couldnt be sure 
whether J was asked  about CCJs and bankruptcy during the renewal meeting. However,  she 
thought the renewal paperwork  made it clear that J needed to tell NFU about  these.  She was 
satisfied that if NFU had been made  aware of this information, it wouldnt have renewed 
cover. She therefore concluded  that NFUs decision to void the policies  was reasonable. 
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2020. My provisional findings were:
As J is a commercial policyholder, the relevant law wed usually consider in a case  involving 
alleged misrepresentation would be the Insurance Act 2015. However, our investigator  
thought that since J was unsophisticated in insurance matters,  it would instead  be fair to 
consider the matter based on the principles that apply to consumer  contracts, under the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). I agree with our 
investigator on this. 
The first point for me to consider is whether NFU asked J clear questions  about the 
information it wanted to know concerning CCJs and bankruptcy.
The partners of J met with Mrs C to discuss their renewal terms on 23 March 2017.  Both 
parties have provided  their recollections  of the meeting. 
The partners of J say that Mrs C asked them about motoring convictions and criminal 
convictions, and if there  had been any changes to their personal circumstances  and that 
they answered no to all of this. Theyve  explained they thought the question  about changes 
to their personal circumstances meant illness, marriage etc. They say they had no idea they 
Ref: DRN92423432had to declare  Mr Bs CCJs and sequestration order,  as these related to a separate business 
he ran. 
In contrast  to this, Mrs C says that whilst she cant remember the exact phrasing, she asked 
a question in the following terms:
Have you had any significant changes in your personal or business circumstances?  
Any convictions? Any CCJs, bankruptcies, additional points on your licence or any 
other facts you need to make me aware  of?
Mrs C has explained its important she checks this information is accurate,  because if not, 
shed need to refer the matter to the underwriters before the policy  could be renewed. 
The difficulty  here is that the two parties  dont  agree  on what was discussed during the 
meeting. However,  following the meeting, Mrs C created  a nine-page document  called 
Insurance Review. This reflected what had been  discussed and the changes made to the 
cover. At the end of the document, it said:
You confirmed that all drivers have had no motoring convictions (including points on 
their licence) or other criminal convictions,  unreported claims or medical conditions 
within the last 12 months,  other than shown on your renewal documents.
The Insurance Review document doesnt  say anything about CCJs or bankruptcy. Since 
Mrs C accepts this was important information  that needed to be confirmed with J before 
renewal, I would have  expected it to be reflected in the Insurance Review document that it 
had been discussed. As it wasnt, on balance, I dont think  NFU has shown that Mrs C asked 
J about CCJs or bankruptcy during the renewal meeting.
However, following  the meeting with Mrs C, NFU sent J their renewal pack. This was sent to 
two of Js partners (not Mr B) who were  named as the policyholders. The covering letter 
advised them to read the enclosed documents thoroughly and make sure the cover  still met 
their needs.  It also said that for their insurance to remain valid, they must tell NFU about any 
changes in their circumstances. It said theyd find guidance about this under Changes  to tell 
us about.
On the third page,  the heading Changes to tell us about said:
You need to tell us straight  away about  any changes that might affect your policy. 
We wont charge you any admin  fees for changes but they might affect the premium 
or the insurance cover we offer when you renew.  If you dont tell us about changes 
as soon as they happen,  you might not be insured.
These are examples of changes we need  to know about:

Country Court Judgements (CCJs),  any form of bankruptcy  or statutory insolvency 
proceedings
I dont think this made it clear that NFU wanted  to know about  CCJs or bankruptcy  
proceedings for anyone other  than the policyholders.
However, the third page of the renewal pack said There are important documents in this 
pack that you should read. Please  check these  documents carefully  and tell us, before your 
Ref: DRN92423433renewal date, if any of this information has changed.  It then listed two documents   the 
statement of insurance,  and the insurance  schedule. 
The statement  of insurance has a heading About the business  and people connected with 
the business or insured  under this policy. It then said:
You have told us the following about  the business,  everyone directly connected with 
the ownership or management of the business  and everyone insured  under this 
policy:

oNo-one has ever been subject to any bankruptcy proceedings
oNo-one has had any court judgements (e.g. CCJs)  in the past five years.
oNo-one has ever been a director of a company which  went into liquidation, 
was put into administration / receivership or subject to arrangements with 
creditors under statute or, in the last five years, been subject to any court 
judgements (CCJs)
I think it was clear that NFU wanted to know about any changes to the information contained 
in the statement of insurance. I also think the statement of insurance made it clear that NFU 
had been previously told that no-one  connected  to the business  had CCJs or had been 
subject to any bankruptcy proceedings. As this had changed and Mr B did have CCJs  and 
had been subject to bankruptcy proceedings, I think J should  have  told NFU about this. 
Consequently, and whilst I recognise  my decision  will come as a great disappointment to J, I 
think NFU were right to conclude  that there was misrepresentation. 
The next point  for me to consider is what NFU would  have done, had it known about the 
CCJs and the sequestration  order. 
NFU has provided a statement from the underwriting manager who would have been 
responsible for deciding  whether or not to allow the policies to renew. Hes confirmed that 
given the number of CCJs, together with the sequestration order,  he wouldnt have offered 
renewal terms  to J.
That being  the case, I think it was appropriate for NFU to void the policies.  
I see that NFU voided all four policies from the April 2017 renewal. As I understand it, one of 
the policies (policy number ending 967) required J to tell NFU straight  away about any CCJs 
or bankruptcy proceedings.  However,  the remaining three policies required J to tell NFU 
about CCJs or bankruptcy proceedings by renewal.  
Because of this, I think NFU would have refused to pay a claim under the policy ending 967, 
if there had been  an insured loss following the date of the sequestration order.  
Consequently, I think it should have voided this particular policy from the date of the 
sequestration order. 
As J was only required to tell NFU about the CCJs and bankruptcy  proceedings at renewal 
for the remaining three policies, I think it was appropriate for NFU to void these from the April 
2017 renewal.  
NFU has categorised the misrepresentation  as reckless, and has therefore kept the 
premiums paid since the policies were voided. It reached that decision because it says all of 
Ref: DRN92423434Js partners were present  during the March 2017 renewal meeting with Mrs C, and it was 
made clear to them during the meeting that CCJs and bankruptcy proceedings needed to be 
disclosed. Also, the CCJs were numerous and the bankruptcy order was made only seven 
months before the renewal. And finally, it was made  clear in the documents  sent to J that 
CCJs and bankruptcy  proceedings  should  be disclosed. 
I dont think NFU has shown the misrepresentation was reckless. Although NFU says it was 
made clear to Js partners  in the March 2017 renewal meeting that CCJs and bankruptcy 
proceedings needed to be disclosed, Js partners dispute this - and the Insurance Review 
document completed after the meeting by Mrs C lends weight to their recollections. I 
therefore dont  agree with NFU that it was made clear  during this meeting that CCJs and 
bankruptcy proceedings needed to be disclosed.
I appreciate there were three  CCJs and a sequestration order. I also accept  that the renewal 
pack made it clear these needed to be disclosed.  However, the renewal pack  wasnt  sent to 
Mr B and was instead sent to the two remaining partners of J as they were the named 
policyholders. As I understand it, these two partners werent aware  of all of Mr Bs CCJs or 
the sequestration order at the time. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the misrepresentation was careless rather  than 
reckless. I therefore intend to require NFU to return the premiums paid from the date the 
policies were voided. However, as Ive found that NFU should have voided the policy  ending  
967 from the date of the sequestration order rather than April 2017, I intend to require NFU 
to return premiums for that particular policy from the earlier date.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
NFU responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision, as it says its not able to 
provide any further  evidence  to support Mrs Cs version of events. 
J responded to explain  they didnt check the whole  renewal pack, and only focused on the 
valuations. They agree with me that this was careless, rather  than reckless.  However, they 
also make  the point that if Mrs C had asked them about CCJs and bankruptcy  during the 
renewal meeting, they think Mr Bs CCJs and bankruptcy  would have come to light, and the 
partnership could have  been restructured so that the cover  could continue.  Theyd like me to 
consider this point.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
J says that if Mrs C had asked them during the renewal meeting about CCJs and 
bankruptcy, then they think Mr Bs CCJs and bankruptcy would have come to light at this 
time. They say that if that had happened, then they could have restructured the partnership  
(presumably without Mr B) so that the insurance  cover could continue.
Ive accepted that NFU hasnt shown that Mrs C asked  J about CCJs and bankruptcy  during 
the renewal meeting. However, I dont know what would have happened if she had. Two of 
Js partners didnt know the extent of the problems Mr B was having in his business, and so I 
cant be sure that if Mrs C had asked about  CCJs and bankruptcy,  that Mr B would have told 
the two other partners  and Mrs C about  his CCJs and sequestration order.  Consequently, I 
Ref: DRN92423435cant reasonably  conclude that cover  would still be in place if Mrs C had asked J about CCJs 
and bankruptcy  during the renewal meeting.
Its also still the case that NFU had made  it clear  in the renewal pack  that it wanted  to know if 
anyone connected  to the business had CCJs or had been subject to bankruptcy  
proceedings. J accepts  that they didnt  read the whole  renewal  pack, and that this was 
careless of them.  
That being  the case, I remain of the opinion that there was misrepresentation and that NFU 
was entitled to turn down the claim and void the policies. However, as explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think NFU has shown the misrepresentation was reckless,  and 
so it follows that it was careless.  It should therefore return the premiums  paid as Ive set out 
in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to return the premiums  paid for the policy ending 967 from 
the date of the sequestration  order. I also require it to return  the premiums  paid for the 
remaining three policies  from the date they were voided. 
Interest should  be added  at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date NFU decided to 
void the policies  to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If NFU considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell J how much its taken off. It should also give J a certificate  showing  
this if they ask for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN9242343