K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the actions of Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) when he was the victim 
of a scam.
background
In June 2018 Mr N made  a payment  for just under £1,000 on his BOI credit card.  At the time 
he believed  he was paying to let a holiday property. The payment was made through  a third 
party Ill refer to as T. Unfortunately, Mr N later found out this was a scam, so he raised a 
section 75 claim with BOI. 
BOI declined  the claim. They explained that as the payment had been made through a third 
party, the debtor,  creditor, supplier  chain had been broken. And therefore, the claim  was 
likely to fail under the schemes rules. 
Mr N wasnt happy with this and complained. He was also unhappy with the service hed 
received in relation to his claim  and that hed been charged interest on the transaction  in 
question. BOI maintained their position in relation to the payment, but they accepted the 
service wasnt  to the usual standard they aim for. So they offered £200 compensation for 
any service failings. Mr N didnt  accept  this so the matter was referred to our service.
One of our investigators  thought BOI had acted  fairly in the circumstances.  He thought  the 
compensation already offered was fair. Mr N still doesnt accept  this and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Generally, BOI can only hold Mr N liable  for the disputed transaction if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that he made  or authorised it himself. And even though he 
was tricked into doing so by the scammer, I dont think I can fairly say Mr N didnt authorise 
the transaction. Mr N himself says he did. 
But banks have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud. So Ive thought carefully  about  
whether or not BOI ought to have  identified that Mr N might  have been at risk of financial  
harm in relation  to the transaction he made. 
Having looked  at Mr Ns transaction  history, I dont think  the payment he made was unusual, 
suspicious or out of character. In the preceding months there  are payments of broadly 
similar amounts.  So overall, I dont think BOI ought to have intervened in the transaction that 
Mr N authorised. But Ive gone on to consider what BOI did once  the scam came  to light.  
The claim was considered under both section 75 and as a chargeback. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those  circumstances is that there  must  be a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier (DCS).  Im not 
Ref: DRN97682722determining the outcome  of Mr Ns claim under  section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that  but I can consider whether BOIs response  to his claim was fair and reasonable. 
Here, Mr N is the debtor,  BOI are the creditor and the scammer who was supposed to be 
providing a holiday  property is the supplier. But in this case,  the credit provided  by BOI didnt 
go directly to the scammer. It went to T who performed  a currency exchange and took a fee, 
before passing  the funds to the scammer. Unfortunately the involvement of T breaks the 
DCS chain  and the claim therefore cant be successful under section 75. 
Another potential  option was a chargeback.  A chargeback is a process through which  a 
payment made on a debit or credit card can be challenged. The rules for this are run by the 
global card schemes. The rules for the scheme  are very specific and there is no discretion to 
operate outside them. One of the rules is that a chargeback may not be submitted for 
payment transactions. Mr Ns payment went to T, who provided  a payment transaction. 
Because of this I dont think there  was a reasonable chance of a chargeback succeeding.  So 
I dont think BOI were wrong  to not pursue  this further. 
Its accepted by both parties that the service provided was lacking in this case.  So all that 
remains to be decided  is whether the £200 BOI have offered is fair compensation. Taking all 
the circumstances of this complaint into consideration, I think  it is. The bulk of the distress 
and inconvenience  experienced in these circumstances was ultimately  the responsibility of 
the scammer. But BOI are responsible for a delay in addressing Mr Ns case amongst other 
service issues.  And I think this added to his worry at what  was already a difficult  time. On 
balance, I think the £200 is a fair and appropriate amount to compensate  for this and the 
costs (such as phone calls) that Mr N incurred  in making his complaint. So Im not going  to 
tell BOI to increase this amount. If Mr N wishes to accept this, he should contact BOI. 
Whilst I understand Mr N has been  the victim of a crime here,  I dont think BOI have been 
unfair in holding him liable  for the transaction. I note that BOI froze  the interest on Mr Ns 
account for two months in their response  to his complaint. But overall, I cant say that 
applying the terms  and conditions of the account to charge interest on an outstanding 
amount is unfair. 
I understand this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr N. And I dont think  hes acted 
unreasonably or is at fault for whats happened, but neither  are BOI. So it wouldnt  be fair for 
me to tell them to refund  the payment. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020
Richard Annandale
Ref: DRN97682723ombudsman
Ref: DRN9768272