K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs S bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a store card.  She applied  for 
the store card and PPI policy in-store. 
At the time,  Mrs S was employed and had been  working for a supermarket for just over a 
year. She has told us she was entitled to no company sick pay and didnt have any other 
means of repaying  her store card should she be unable to work. Mrs S has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  15% of Mrs Ss store card balance in the event of Mrs S being 
unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The policy also provided price protection and property protection. Mrs S hasnt complained  
about these elements of the insurance  policy, so I will not consider them further  in this 
decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost £1.00 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The premium  
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ss representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN97649112claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mrs S about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs S and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
Ref: DRN97649113This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Ss case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN97649114-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA has provided a copy of the application form Mrs S signed from the time of the sale.  To 
get the cover Mrs S had to sign her signature for it. And whilst there was some wording on 
the form that was encouraging Mrs S to apply for the PPI, the section in which she has to 
sign for it says, only sign this box if you require Account  Cover.  And the signature for the 
PPI was separate to the signature for the credit.
So, if Mrs S hadnt wanted the cover, she could have left the section  blank and just signed to 
get the credit facility.  
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Mrs S to the contrary, taking everything into account, 
I think its more likely that Mrs S knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Mrs S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs S to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with Mrs Ss application  form which also functioned  as the credit 
agreement  showing that PPI had been selected.  It has also referred us to a copy  of the 
paperwork it says she wouldve received, including the policy terms and conditions 
document  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to a policy like Mrs Ss. 
Ref: DRN97649115Looking at the documentation provided to Mrs S at the time,  I dont  think  AXA gave Mrs S 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what AXA told Mrs S about  the PPI but I think its 
unlikely she would have  agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and involuntary  unemployment  cover. 
And I think its unlikely Mrs S would have  thought  it was free. I can see the application form 
informed Mrs S that the relevant  premiums would be debited from her account and that the 
cost would be 1p for every pound  of your monthly  balance.
The information provided would have given Mrs S a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ss attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs S, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that AXA adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So, I dont think AXA gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
Ref: DRN97649116what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs S. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mrs S says she would  not have  taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs S chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs S thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So, while  Mrs S didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or for which she consulted a doctor during the 12 months 
before the policy started.
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
was on a fixed term contract.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs S be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
Ref: DRN97649117that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs S didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs S, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and other  job which  in the insurers  view she might reasonably become qualified for, it might 
have played into her thinking  about  what she would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given her pause for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs S was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her card 
repayments if she were unable to work due to accident or sickness  and, she thought,  
involuntary unemployment. And, in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not 
that she would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN97649118Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay Mrs S compensation,  as that would  put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9764911