K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
July 2005 alongside a credit card. Mr H, who is represented by a third party,  says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what  Ive seen 
about the card application process, I think Mr H made a decision to buy the policy. I say 
this because Ive seen that on his application  form, theres an X added to a box to show  
Mr H wanted to go ahead with PPI alongside  his credit card. And I think  he would have  
had the opportunity to review his application and discuss  it with his BoS representative at 
the meeting before making  his decision to buy the policy  and sign the application form. 
 Given that BoS recommended the PPI to Mr H at a meeting in branch  even though 
Mr H isnt so sure about this - it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to 
have had a need  for the cover.   
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong, given that it 
doesnt look as if he was entitled  to receive  any benefits from his employer.  And although 
Mr H told us he could rely on family  members  to help him  which  is a good reassurance  
to have - it depends on individual  financial circumstances, which  can easily  change. So 
Mr H wouldnt  have had to rely on family or other potential sources of funding to help out. 
It also looks like it was affordable. I therefore  dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This all means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And although Ive thought about the points  
made by those representing Mr H in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
From what  Ive seen, the offer may not have  been paid out yet to Mr H. If thats right,  BoS 
can make  arrangements to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN98466272my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9846627