K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with how Ageas Insurance Limited have handled a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy. 
background
Mrs M had a number of items of jewellery stolen from her home so she made a claim on her 
home insurance. Amongst  the stolen items of jewellery were two diamond  rings and a hat 
pin. One of the rings  was specified  on the policy as a personal possession with a value of 
£3000. 
Ageas appointed an assessor to evaluate  the value of the items that had been stolen. They  
offered Mrs M a total cash settlement of around £4000 or vouchers for one of their preferred 
supplier. In relation to items which are the subject of this complaint they offered: 
Ring 1 - £1250  in vouchers or £812 cash settlement
Ring 2 - £600 in vouchers or £390 cash settlement  
Hat Pin - £35 in vouchers 
Mrs M says Ring 1 was specifically insured for £3000  so thats what  Ageas should  pay. She 
also says Ring 2 was worth £1500 and the hat pin was worth £600.  Mrs M doesnt think a 
modern jeweller  can replace  these items  because  of the features of the jewellery. Mrs M is 
also unhappy because  four other items were missing from the schedule. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought  Ageas  had assessed  the claim 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. She noted Mrs M hadnt  been able to 
provide a valuation or receipt for Ring 1 and was satisfied Ageas had based their valuations 
on the information Mrs M had provided. The investigator also concluded Mrs M had said she 
didnt want to include the other  four items which didnt appear  on the schedule and 
confirmed Ageas was happy to assess those items if Mrs M wanted to include them.  
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said Ageas had missed the items off, shed provided several 
pictures of the jewellery and shed queried  the breakdown of the items provided by Ageas. 
She also pointed  out that as shed had the items for such a long time she didnt have 
receipts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mrs Ms correspondence how upsetting losing her jewellery has been,  
particularly as the items had a lot of sentimental  value. I can appreciate  the loss of such 
sentimental items must  have been  very distressing. 
The endorsement on Mrs Ms policy says:  
You will be required to provide evidence of value  in the event of loss or damage to 
any Specified Personal Possessions item insured for a value in excess of £2500. For 
items insured for a value  of £5000 or more the evidence you provide may be in the 
form of: 
Ref: DRN94327582A written valuation no more than five years old or 
The original purchase receipt 
Failure to produce adequate  evidence  of value may affect your ability to claim for loss 
or damage  to the item. 
The policy terms and conditions explain how Ageas settles claims. It says:
We will at our option repair,  reinstate or replace the lost or damaged  property. Where  
property cannot  be replaced or repaired we may at our option  pay in cash  the amount 
of the loss or damage.  If we do pay cash the sum payable will reflect any discounts 
we may have received had we replaced the property. The sums insured/total limit will 
not be reduced by any claim. An approved supplier may be appointed where 
appropriate to act on our behalf to further  validate your claim and they are authorised 
to arrange a quotation, a repair  or a replacement where appropriate. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say Ageas  has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably  reject a claim. Im satisfied Ageas has 
treated Mrs M fairly. I say that because: 
Its for Mrs M to demonstrate she has a valid claim, including  the value of the items 
that were stolen. So its not Ageass  responsibility to disprove the values shes  
provided
The endorsement on the policy explains Mrs M is required to provide evidence  of the 
value of items insured for £2500  or more.  Mrs M says Ring 1 is worth  at least £3000,  
probably more. I appreciate shes provided pictures and testimony  about the quality 
and cut of the stone.  And Im satisfied Ageas has taken all of the relevant information  
into account when  assessing the claim.  But I dont think  its unreasonable for Ageas  
to say shes failed  to provide adequate  evidence to support the higher valuation  as 
theres no independent evidence to corroborate Mrs Ms valuation  of the ring. And the 
policy doesnt say Mrs M would automatically  receive £2500  if she couldnt  evidence 
the higher value
In relation to Ring 2 and the hatpin  there  is also very limited evidence  of the value of 
the items. I think Ageas has taken a reasonable approach to the valuation as Im 
satisfied theyve based it on the information  Mrs M has provided  and the available 
evidence
Ageas  has offered  Mrs M vouchers or a cash settlement for the rings.  Theyve  
explained that the cash settlement is 35% lower than the value  of the vouchers  as 
that reflects the discount theyd receive by replacing the property using their 
approved supplier.  Thats  a common term in most insurance  policies and Im satisfied  
its been applied  fairly in Mrs Ms case
Mrs M has explained she doesnt  feel a modern jeweller can provide her with 
replacement jewellery. But, by offering Mrs M a cash settlement  for the rings  she has 
the option to go to a jeweller  of her choice, rather than Ageass preferred supplier.  
The policy explains  this is something  that is at Ageass discretion and I think theyve 
applied that discretion  reasonably  in Mrs Ms case 
Ref: DRN94327583Ageas  says Mrs M didnt  want to include four items in the claim. Mrs M disputes that. 
But Ageas has offered  to assess these items if Mrs M wants  to include them which I 
think is reasonable
I can see Mrs Ms daughter emailed Ageas asking for a breakdown and had to chase 
up a response.  Ageas  did respond attaching  a list of the items and apologising for the 
delay in responding. So this point doesnt  change  my thoughts  about the outcome of 
this complaint.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9432758