K822xcomplaint
Mr K says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  (QQ), irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint was brought to this service on Mr Ks behalf by a claims management 
company. But for ease,  I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr K.
background 
This complaint is about 13 payday  loans  and five top up loans QQ provided to Mr K between 
February 2012 and December  2017. The loans were repayable  by two or three instalments. 
All of the loans  have been repaid. A summary of Mr Ks lending history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
1. 26/2/12 30/4/12 £350 £437.50
2. 3/9/13 31/10/13 £350 £437.50
     3. 6/12/13 28/2/14 £350 £437.50
     4. 13/3/14 29/8/14 (2 loan 
extensions)£300 £375
     5. 5/9/14 30/1/15 £550 £687.50
     5a.  
(Top up) 16/9/14 30/1/15 (1 loan 
extension)£400 £1,187.50 (with Loan 5)
     6 7/3/15 29/5/15 £950 £1,170.40
     7. 4/6/15 31/7/15 £1,000 £1,224
     8. 23/8/15 30/11/15 £300 £372
     8a. 
(Top up)8/9/15 30/11/15 (1 loan 
extension)£300 £744 (with Loan 8)
     9. 2/12/15 29/2/16 £600 £748
     9a. 
(Top up)11/12/15 29/2/16 £400 £1,248 (with  Loan 9)
     10. 15/3/16 31/5/16 £500 £628
     10a.  
(Top up)19/3/16 31/5/16 £500 £1145.47 (with 
Loan 10)
     11. 31/5/16 31/8/16 £350 £442.40
     12. 10/10/16 30/12/16 £1,350 £1,674
     13. 20/10/17 28/2/18 £900 £1,137.60
     13a.  
(Top up)22/12/17 28/2/18 (1 loan 
extension)£100 £1,264 (with  Loan 13)
our adjudicators view
Mr Ks complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think QQ had 
been wrong to give Loans  2 to 4 to Mr K. But he recommended that Mr Ks complaint about 
Loan 1 and Loan 5 onwards  should  be upheld. 
QQ disagreed and responded to say, in summary,  that it had evaluated the loans with a 
proportionate and thorough affordability assessment. QQ said that Mr K had established a 
good lending  and repayment history  with it. It also said that the mere number of loans was 
insufficient to conclude that the loans were  unsustainable. It disagreed that the number of 
Ref: DRN94795722instances of lending was evidence of Mr K being  reliant on short term lending. QQ also 
provided this service with a document which is titled CEU Lending Criteria and Proportionate 
Checks to show its entire  lending process.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to QQ on 5 July 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I explained that when QQ first lent to Mr K the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading and 
relevant guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 
onwards the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations 
and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC 
contained similar guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. 
I explained that QQ needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Mr K could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Ks income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing might  signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
QQ was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
I said that the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defined sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without 
borrowing further. 
Ref: DRN94795723Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ks complaint.
I noted that QQ had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr K. It asked him for details 
of his income. And from Loan 5 it also asked  about  Mr Ks expenditure. Mr Ks initial 
declared income was £1,200 until Loan  5 when it increased to £1,500.  From Loan 11 Mr Ks 
income was £1,850. Mr K declared his expenditure as £375  from Loan 5 until Loan 12 when 
it increased to £425. QQ checked Mr Ks employment and housing status. From the 
information QQ gathered,  Mr K was employed and paid rent. 
QQ had also checked Mr Ks credit file before agreeing to the loans. It had only provided us 
with a summary of the results of its last credit check before Loan 13. Mr K had provided his 
credit report  to us. I could see that Mr Ks credit report showed  he had taken out other  short 
term loans.
Mr Ks first loan with QQ was for £350  with two monthly repayments of £87.50  and £437.50. 
The first repayment consisted of interest only on the amount borrowed and the final 
repayment consisted of the full amount borrowed and the interest  for the last month.  QQ had 
told us that Mr K would  have signed  a declaration to confirm he understood that he had to 
carry over disposable  income from the previous month in order to make his final large 
payment. But even if this declaration signing had formed part of the loan application process, 
it didnt absolve  QQ of its obligation  to assess the risk to Mr K and make a fair decision. 
Mr K had declared an income of £1,200. I thought Mr Ks final repayment on Loan 1 was a 
significant proportion  of his income. So, I thought  it might have  been  proportionate at this 
time for QQ to have gathered some further information  from Mr K about  his expenditure and 
other short term lending.  Had it done  so, it was likely  that QQ wouldve learnt that Mr K was 
borrowing several times from another lender at the same time as he was borrowing from 
QQ. I could  see from Mr Ks bank statement that his five other  short term loans totalled 
£1,580, which was more than his income. I thought that the number and amount of Mr Ks 
outstanding short term loans showed that QQs loan wasnt likely to be affordable 
irrespective of how the loan was structured  over the loan term. So I thought QQ ought to 
have realised it was unlikely Mr K wouldve been able to sustainably  repay Loan 1. 
I noted that there was a gap of just over 16 months  between Mr K repaying Loan 1 and 
asking to borrow again. I noted  that Loan  1 had been paid by the due date. I thought  the gap 
between Loans  1 and 2 was sufficient for QQ to have looked at Mr Ks application for Loan  2 
afresh and effectively treated him as a new customer.
However, while there had been this gap in lending, the amount Mr K came back to borrow  at 
the time of Loan 2 was still significant.  The loan was still for £350, and like Loan 1, it was 
repayable over two instalments with a highest  instalment  of £437.50. And I thought for the 
same reasons as set out above for Loan  1 that QQ should have put together  a clearer 
picture of Mr K finances  before  agreeing  to lend to him going forwards.  And if QQ had 
carried out proportionate checks before Loan  2, it would  have  seen, as I had seen  from 
Mr Ks bank  statements, that Mr K was again having difficulties managing his money as he 
was borrowing several loans from another lender at the same time as Loan 2. Again I 
thought that the number and amounts of Mr Ks other loans showed that Loan 2 wasnt  likely 
to be sustainably repaid irrespective of how the loan was structured. So I didnt  think  that QQ 
should have lent Loan 2 to Mr K.
Ref: DRN94795724Loan 3 was again for the same amount as the first two loans. But the repayments were  to be 
made over three months with two monthly payments consisting of interest  on the amount 
borrowed of £87.50 and one final payment of £437.50. For the same  reasons as above, I 
thought QQ should have  put together a clearer picture here of Mr Ks finances  before 
agreeing to lend to him. And if QQ had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 3, it 
would have seen  that Mr K was in arrears with his short term borrowing with another lender  
owing it £982.  So he was again having difficulties in managing his money. So again I didnt 
think it was reasonable  for QQ to have agreed  Loan 3 on the basis  that Mr K could 
potentially save from month to month.  And I didnt  think that QQ should  have lent Loan 3 to 
Mr K. 
The amount  of Loan 4 had reduced  by £50, and was repayable over two instalments with a 
highest instalment  of £375. But it was taken out less than two weeks  after Loan 3 was 
repaid. This didnt  suggest that Mr K would have  had surplus  funds available  to him from 
month to month. As the second repayment was a significant proportion  of Mr Ks income and 
Loan 4 was Mr Ks third loan in six months, I thought it might have been proportionate at this 
time for QQ to have independently  reviewed  the true state of Mr Ks finances.  If it had done  
so, it would have  seen that Mr K was spending  a significant percentage of his income on 
gambling. I thought  it was likely that QQ would have found out about this if it had enquired 
further into Mr Ks circumstances when hed applied for Loan  4. And as a responsible lender 
it wouldnt have agreed to lend Loan  4 to him.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of QQs lending history with Mr K, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 5. I said this because:
Mr K had taken out a loan of £350 the previous September  and he was now asking 
for a loan of £550. He hadnt  made  any inroads into his debt over this time and paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to QQ over an extended period. 
Loan 5 was provided within a week of settling Loan 4 and the loan amount almost 
doubled. I thought that increase in borrowing alone should have put QQ on notice 
that Mr K might be experiencing  some  financial pressures.  And the fact that he took 
this loan just a week after repaying  his previous  borrowing might have added to those 
concerns.
QQ ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr K was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole that repaying his previous loan had left in his finances.  It 
also appeared that Mr K might have  had difficulty repaying  Loan 4 as he had sought  
two loan extensions  to repay it. 
There were  some  very small gaps  from Loan  2 onwards between loans being  repaid 
and a new loan being granted including one of around five weeks before Loan  3. But, 
I didnt think it would  have been  reasonable for QQ to conclude these gaps were any 
indication that Mr Ks finances had moved on from whatever situation  had required 
his previous loans.
The chain of lending  of around 50 months between Loans  2 and 13 didnt reflect the 
intended use of high-cost short-term  credit.
Ref: DRN94795725I could see that as QQ didnt stop lending at this point, Mr K went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further three years. Although there was a gap of almost eleven months between 
Loans 12 and 13, there  had been  an established  pattern of borrowing from Loan 2 until 
Loan 12. I thought QQ ought to have been  concerned about this irrespective  of this length of 
pause in Mr Ks applications. So I treated Loans 13 and 13a as part of the same  chain of 
lending as Loans 2 to 12.
I thought that Mr K had lost out because QQ had continued to provide borrowing from 
Loan 5 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr K had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
The fact that the loans  were  repaid didnt mean  that they were repaid sustainably,  or 
without causing  Mr K undue difficulty. 
Id also considered the points QQ had made in response to the adjudicators view. 
QQ had provided this service with a document which was titled CEU  Lending  Criteria  and 
Proportionate Checks, which wasnt case-specific. This service had responded to QQs 
submission of this document on many previous occasions and so I said I would say no more 
about it. But I had taken its contents into account,  including QQs argument about 
consumers being  able to save to repay the final balloon repayment.
QQ said that Mr K had a good lending and repayment history. But I thought QQ would (or 
ought to) know from previous decisions that this service  considers there  would be times 
when the pattern of lending alone was enough to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in 
financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending  continue. So it followed 
that successful repayment of a loan didnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
QQ also said that the mere number of loans was an insufficient basis  to conclude that the 
loans were unsustainable. But, QQ knew from previous decisions (as well as what  was set 
out on our website)  that there were cases where  this service considered the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  When  a consumer had borrowed 
numerous loans  over a long period of time,  it was most likely that the loans  werent being 
used for their intended purpose of temporary  cash flow problems. As QQ knew, the FCA 
made it clear  in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of 
relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And Id thought that 
was the case  here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or QQ my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as 
QuickQuid to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on all the loans;
Ref: DRN94795726pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse entries about Loans  1 to 4 from Mr Ks credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 5 onwards meant any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 5 onwards should  be removed from 
Mr Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing  further  that he wanted  
us to consider.
QQ responded by saying  again that it had carried out adequate  and proportionate  checks.  
QQ said that by the time of Loan 5 Mr K had established a good  repayment history.  It said 
that there  was no absolute figure  for the length  of gap between loans that signified a 
dependency on credit  or a lack of dependency. QQ also said that Mr K had requested loan 
extensions on some loans  but this wasnt  a sign that Mr K was struggling to meet 
repayments. QQ also said that Mr K had confirmed that he was able to afford the 
repayments on their due dates. It also said that Mr K didnt tell it that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that QQ said that Mr K had established  a good repayment history  by the time of 
Loan 5. I disagree.  I note that Mr K had asked for two loan extensions  during Loan 4. I think 
the loan extensions might  have  suggested to QQ that Mr K couldnt keep to the payment 
terms in his loan agreements as he might be experiencing some financial pressures. 
And QQ will also be aware that this service  doesnt accept that a borrower repaying a loan 
early or on time means it was automatically  repaid sustainably. And as Id said in my 
provisional decision, I think QQ will (or ought to) know from previous decisions that this 
service considers there will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate 
that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or will otherwise be harmed should 
relending continue.
I note what QQ says about the gaps in lending. I dont think  there  is an absolute length  of 
gap between loans  which signifies a dependency  on credit or otherwise. I note the gaps in 
lending from Loan  2 onwards. But I dont think it would have been reasonable for QQ to have  
concluded that any of these were  an indication that Mr Ks finances had moved on from 
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans. As Id said in my provisional decision, 
there was an established  pattern of borrowing which ought  to have concerned  QQ 
irrespective of the length of pauses in Mr Ks loan applications.
Ref: DRN94795727I note that QQ said that Mr K requested loan extensions. But it also said that these werent a 
sign he was struggling  to meet repayments. I disagree for the same reason as Ive set out 
above.
QQ also said that Mr K had confirmed that he was able to afford the repayments on their due 
dates. But as I said in my provisional  decision, even if this confirmation  had formed part of 
the loan application process, it didnt absolve  QQ of its obligation  to assess  the risk to Mr K 
and make a fair decision. And I dont think it did so for the reasons Ive set out in my 
provisional decision.
QQ also said that Mr K didnt tell it that he was experiencing  financial difficulties. If he had 
done so, I think  its unlikely QQ wouldve continued lending to him. But that doesnt change  
the fact that QQ was required by its regulator to lend responsibly. And it was required to 
check whether any loans it issued could be sustainably repaid by Mr K over the term of the 
loan. So even  if Mr K didnt tell QQ about  any financial difficulties at the time, it was still 
required to act responsibly and I dont think it did for the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
decision. 
Overall, QQ hasnt  said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect. So my final decision is the same as I
outlined in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr K paid on all the loans;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  1 to 4 from Mr Ks credit  file; and
4.The number of loans  taken from Loan 5 onwards  meant any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loan 5 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Ks credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  26 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94795728
Ref: DRN9479572