K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that an engineer from British Gas Insurance Limited  broke her bathroom  
window when he was at her home repairing a blocked toilet.
background
Mrs S has a British Gas insurance  policy which covers various parts  of her home. She made 
a claim for a blocked  toilet and an engineer attended.  Mrs S says the engineer  broke her 
bathroom window  when he opened  it. 
British Gas acknowledged that the engineer had opened the window  to speak to a colleague 
outside, but it said he did so in a normal way and wasnt negligent. British Gas concluded the 
damage was wear and tear  and said this was supported by the quote  Mrs S had provided  
for a replacement window, which noted  broken gearing.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.   She  said British Gas asked her to obtain  the 
quote, so she thought  it would be replacing  the window. She also said the engineer  hadnt 
asked if he could open the window;  and he also didnt report  the damage to British Gas at 
the time,  despite  her request he do so.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but she didnt think  it should be upheld. 
She explained that she didnt think it was likely the damage had been caused by a single 
incident  so she concluded  it would  be unreasonable to ask British Gas to pay for the 
damage. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint  has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Mrs S says there wasnt  any damage to her bathroom window before the engineer  opened it, 
and shes questioned why the engineer  didnt  report the incident  even though  he had agreed 
to. She also highlighted that she has a similar window on her landing  thats  still in perfect  
condition.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When the evidence is inconclusive,  as it 
is here, I reach  my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider  is more 
likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Overall, I dont  consider  it unreasonable that the engineer opened the window in the room  he 
was working, or that he didnt obtain  permission from Mrs S before doing  so given he wasnt  
aware there  might be a problem. So for me to uphold this complaint I must be persuaded 
that, on balance,  he caused the damage  by opening  the window in a way thats not 
designed, or by using  excessive force  and thats  not the case here.  
Ref: DRN94606222I appreciate the point  Mrs S makes about  her landing window still being  in working order,  but 
given their locations I think its likely that her bathroom window would have been opened on 
many more occasions than her landing window, so would have worn sooner. Therefore, Im 
not persuaded by this point. I do understand her concerns that the engineer  didnt report  the 
problem to British  Gas, but this alone  doesnt  persuade me he did something  wrong.  Im 
more persuaded  by the information  detailed on the quote  which doesnt, in my view, 
suggest that the window  was broken due to improper use. 
So having  carefully considered all the available information, on balance,  Im more  persuaded 
that the gearing simply failed because it had reached the end of its lifespan  and the issue 
is likely  to have occurred  regardless  of who opened the window. Therefore, even if the 
problem wasnt present before the engineer opened  it, I cant  reasonably decide that 
British Gas is responsible  for the damage,  or the repair costs.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S. But for the reasons  explained above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460622