K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when he took out a 
credit card in 2004 with Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr M has already been paid some money  for the commission Barclays  received from 
selling him the PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint 
about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld.
Mr M disagreed with this and still thinks he was mis-sold the policy in the first place 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the mis-sale complaint. 
I dont doubt Mr M genuinely  now feels that the PPI was mis-sold to him. Barclays records  
show he took out his credit  card in 2004 with a postal application. The form he used didnt  
have any questions or options  about  PPI on it. The PPI was added a few days later after a 
telephone call. We dont have a recording of the call, but after some  15 years  thats  not 
particularly unusual.
Nevertheless, weve been asked to look at quite a few sales  which are very similar in nature  
to this one. Weve therefore looked  in detail at what Barclays processes were  at the time 
and the type of information consumers were  usually given. We know,  for example, that 
consumers who completed  this type of short application form were  later called by Barclays 
and amongst other things, they were  asked about having PPI.
Although we dont  have  access  to the actual  call recording anymore, we do know that 
Barclays call-handlers were told to follow a specific telephone script when selling PPI 
policies like these. And having looked very carefully at the script and when it was being used 
were satisfied that staff were told to tell consumers the PPI policy  was optional.
From my experience, I also think Mr Ms credit card statements  would have started to show  
the PPI being  charged on his account  from that time. I can see he paid quite lot over time, 
for the PPI, and because these charges were usually described on the statements as 
Payment Insurance  Plan I think Mr M would have been aware the policy had been set up 
for him. 
So, on the basis of these findings, I think its more  likely Barclays  would have obtained his 
consent, back in 2004.
Barclays concedes this was probably an advised sale so it had a duty to make sure the 
cover was suitable for him. Overall,  I think it was.
Ref: DRN95420502This is because I think Mr M was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
policy exclusions we tend to see. At 79p per £100  of the outstanding credit card balance,  the 
PPI also appears to have  been an affordable charge. Mr M says he already had some sick 
pay with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt  necessarily mean the policy  wasnt of use. The 
PPI could have  reduced  his credit card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the event 
of a successful claim. This would have been in addition to any other  means he had at the 
time.
I therefore think the policy was suitable  for him.
Barclays also needed to provide clear  enough  information for Mr M to make an informed 
choice. I cant say for sure if it did this and I cant say it did everything  right.  But I think  the 
evidence shows its more  likely that Mr M wanted the policy  and I think the phone  call would 
have involved the exchange of information about  what the policy  did. 
This means  I dont  think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr M. Its already 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to him because when the policy  was sold it expected 
to get a high level of commission  and profit share; more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Barclays should have  told Mr M about  that. Because it didnt, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium with interest. I think thats fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid to Mr M the commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium and so it doesnt need  to anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542050