K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained about how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE handled a 
claim under his motor  insurance policy. 
background
After Mr Ss car was vandalised, he claimed under  his policy for its repair.  He had a number 
of complaints about the way Aioi handled his claim, including that they took too long to repair 
his car and to give him a courtesy  car, and that they didnt keep him informed. He also 
complained that his catalytic converter had been  removed from his car and felt that Aiois 
agents must have been responsible for that.
Aioi upheld his complaint,  apart from as regards  the catalytic converter issue,  and offered 
him compensation of £250. But he didnt  think  it was enough,  so he brought the matter  to us. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Aioi had dealt with his complaint fairly and in line with the approach this Service  
recommends. And so she didnt ask the business to increase  its compensation offer. Mr S 
didnt agree and so the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Ss policy does entitle him to a courtesy  car while  repairs  to his car were 
being carried out. And Aioi did give him a courtesy car for the duration of the repairs,  which  
was about 5 weeks. But they accepted that they didnt give him the courtesy car until about 
14 days after he made his claim.  This was because at first they didnt think that his car was 
repairable. Instead  it seems they thought  that his car would be a total loss, and so they 
werent required to provide a courtesy  car under the policy. So they took his car to their 
salvage agents. 
But on further investigation, Aioi agreed that Mr Ss car could be repaired.  They  also 
considered that the damage  to his car was as a result of impact damage  as well as 
vandalism. So this meant that there were two separate claims instead  of one, and so it took 
longer to start the repairs.  In the meantime Mr S had to make several calls to Aioi, to find out 
what was happening with his claim. Aioi agreed  that they hadnt provided  the level of service  
they expected.  They  apologised for the inconvenience to him and gave  him compensation of 
£250 for their poor service, lack of communication and for being without his car for a period. 
However they didnt  accept responsibility  for the missing catalytic converter. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that it would have been  better practice if Aioi had given Mr S a 
courtesy car sooner and started the repairs sooner. But I also agree that Aioi paid him a 
reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience the delay caused  him and for the 
loss of use of his car. As the adjudicator explained,  we generally think  that a rate of £10 a 
day for loss of use is fair. As Aioi paid Mr S a total of £250 compensation for their poor 
service and communication  and loss of use, I think theyve dealt with his complaint fairly. 
Ref: DRN91083952Mr S also complained that Aioi were responsible for his catalytic  converter being removed 
from his car. He thought that this could have happened while  his car was at Aiois salvage 
agents before it was sent for repair. But Aioi denied this, and their engineer said that there 
would have been no reason for either their salvage agents or their repairing garage to have  
tampered with that part, as the damage to the car didnt involve that area. Mr S said that he 
didnt know about  that damage  until about  the February after he got his car back from the 
repairs in about  December. It was only when his own garage was doing  other  work that they 
told him that the converter had been removed. He said he wasnt to know  about it earlier,  as 
he doesnt know much  about cars. However, given  that the parts removal  wasnt  discovered 
until a few months later, I dont think that it would be fair without any other  supporting 
evidence to assume that the part was removed whilst it was with Aiois agents, or to hold 
them responsible for it.
Mr S also said,  during this Services investigation,  that Aioi hadnt given him a new car 
battery he said theyd promised him during  the repairs. He wanted  them  to compensate  him 
for that too. But, as the adjudicator advised him, that is a separate complaint that he may 
wish to take up with Aioi, and give them the chance  to respond to it. So I dont comment  on 
that matter here. 
Its really unfortunate  that Mr Ss car was vandalised and that he was put in that situation 
through no fault of his own. I can see that the situation, and Aiois delay and poor 
communication afterwards, caused  him stress, and loss of use of his car caused him 
inconvenience. But I dont  think that Aioi have  acted unreasonably. They have already 
compensated him £250 for these matters, and I think that amount does adequately reflect 
the loss and inconvenience  caused  to him. So I dont  require  them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9108395