K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr S says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And NatWest told us that as the 
commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than 50% of what he paid,  NatWest  didnt need to pay 
back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
 
Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need  to tell Mr S 
about the commission it received - so NatWest  doesnt need  to pay back any of the 
commission Mr S paid for the PPI. Ive summarised  my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it out. I say this because the sale happened approximately  26 years ago, so its 
maybe not surprising  that neither party has been  able to provide the application  for the 
sale. But I have thought that NatWest  told us that the credit started in 1986,  some nine 
years before  Mr S took out cover to protect his payments for it. In any event,  considering 
how long ago the sale was, and in the absence of detailed testimony from Mr S to the 
contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence  to uphold this complaint on this matter.   
Ref: DRN93535512NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S - so it didnt have to check  that the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr S enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S. The policy could have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for longer  than his employers  would have paid 
him at his full rate of pay. And Mr S told us that he had only limited other means he could 
rely on to make  his repayments if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ss employment which  would  have made it difficult  for him to claim. 
Although Mr S says he had medical conditions sometime before the policy  was taken  
out, I dont think better information about  the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused him to change his mind about  taking out the policy.  I say this because 
Mr S has provided no detailed testimony about  the  conditions  and no testimony that they 
cost him any ongoing issues  or caused him to miss time off work, such that he would 
have thought these to be the most likely  reasons he would have needed to miss 
significant time off work in the future. So, I dont think Mr S wouldve acted any differently 
had he known more  about the exclusion. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems. It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  Because  of this I 
dont think Mr S would  have declined the cover had NatWest  done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ss representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ss particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN93535513Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest  didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt  need  to do pay back any of the commission Mr S paid. My reasons  are set 
out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Ss representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin 1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr S should get back all the money he paid for the policy  
because: NatWest failed to tell Mr S about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, 
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken out the policy  
had they known about the level of commission and he should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Ss PPI was less than half 
of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest  has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Ss case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mr S about  the commission.  So, it follows  that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think NatWest  treated Mr S 
unfairly. 
This means  NatWest doesnt need to pay Mr S back any of the commission he paid for the 
PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN93535514out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ss complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr S paid for the 
PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9353551