K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the time it took Castle Trust Capital Management Limited  (the 
business) to transfer his stocks and shares  ISA to his new cash  ISA with a third party 
business.
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes unable  to say that the business  is responsible for the delay.
On 8 April the business received Mr Ps request to transfer the stocks and shares 
holdings to the new business,  once  they matured on 1 May 2019. 
Unfortunately, this request was incorrectly made on a cash ISA transfer form. 
The business requires  these requests to be made on the right form  without which it 
cant notify the third party business. Whilst this might be frustrating for Mr P, it wasnt  
unreasonable.
By 2 May 2019, the business still hadnt  received the correct documents. So the 
business sent a letter notifying Mr P that his holdings  had matured. 
The following day the business received the correct transfer request form from the 
third part party business. 
The earliest the business  could  process the request was the next day which it did the 
very same day.
In accordance with government  guidelines,  cash ISAs can typically  take up to two 
weeks to complete, where stocks and shares  can take up to 30 calendar days.    
Mr Ps ISA transfer was completed  on 7 May 2019  which was within a reasonable 
amount of time,  given the guidelines and how long it can take.
Even if the correct  forms had been received by the business there was no guarantee 
that the request wouldve been processed at maturity. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  In 
summary, he said:
The business told him to complete the stocks and shares ISA form because of 
legislation. 
If the investigator simply accepted the business account hed ask the case is 
assigned to another investigator.  If the legislation doesnt exist the ombudsman  will 
agree theres been an attempt to mislead.  
The government guidelines referred  to by the investigator are just that, rather than a 
legal requirement.  The vast majority dont take two weeks or 30 calendar  days  to 
transfer funds. 
At the time he was buying  property and needed his money. 
The investigator having considered Mr Ps additional  points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
We look at complaints differently to how a court would. Shes  simply considered 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
It wasnt unreasonable for the business to require the transfer request to be made on 
the correct form.
Ref: DRN91070452Our service relies  upon government guidelines as a basis of what  might  be a 
reasonable length of time for transfers.  
Whilst Mr P feels the business  couldve contacted him on 8 April 2019, instead  of the 
third party  business, it wasnt unreasonable for it to have  done that. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite  what Mr P says, Im not satisfied that 
the business has behaved unreasonably.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr P and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
On 3 May 2019,  the business received  the correct transfer form, I understand it actioned the 
request the very next day. 
But because 3 May was a Friday, I think its likely  the next  day was the very next business 
day which was Monday 6 May 2019.  Although its possible it started the process on a 
Saturday I think its unlikely. Either way I dont think it couldve reasonably started  any 
earlier. Im aware the transaction was actioned within a day which I dont think  is 
unreasonable at all. 
I understand Mr P submitted his request  to transfer  to the business  on 8 April 2019, and 
probably thinks of this as the start date, but I disagree. On this date an application  was made 
by him (or on his behalf) but it was on the incorrect form,  so the business  wasnt obliged  to 
start the transfer  process.  
I agree  with the investigator it wasnt unreasonable for the business  to require the transfer  
request to be made on the correct form. This sort of requirement for stocks  and shares  ISA 
and cash ISA transfer requests to be made on the correct form is common industry practice.  
Ref: DRN91070453I also think its a matter  for the business  within the reasonable exercise  of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  to set out the conditions of its transfer request process. Its not for 
us to tell it how to run its business.   
Im mindful that on 8 April 2019 the business  contacted the third party business (to which the 
shares were  going),  I dont think it was wrong  to do so instead of contacting Mr P direct.  
I agree  with Mr P that HM Revenue and Customs guidelines are just guidelines rather  than 
tramlines, and they provide  a general guide by which business try to adhere  to. But whilst 
most businesses aspire to complete  the transfers a lot sooner than the guidelines,  Mr P 
should be aware that others take much longer. And still it doesnt necessarily mean the 
business is wrong as it depends on the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9107045