K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mrs S complains  Ageas  Insurance Limited has unfairly refused to 
settle its claim in full.
background 
In 2018 the late Mrs S property was damaged by an escape  of water. Her estate claimed  on 
its Ageas  home insurance policy. Putting right the damage to the building  and its contents  
was estimated at around £40-45,000. Ageas started the repairs,  including installing 
dehumidifiers to dry the property. The estate says it agreed to pay the claim in full. But a few 
months after the damage happened Ageas realised there was a £5,000 limit for escape of 
water claims. So it said it wouldnt be putting  right the all the damage.    
After the estate complained, Ageas apologised for not being  aware  of the policy  limit initially.  
It said it had paid £6,500 for work  already done.  It paid a further £5,000.  But it refused to pay 
the claim in full.
The executors of the estate werent  happy  with Ageas response. So on behalf of the estate 
they bought a complaint  to this service. The estate wants the claim to be settled in full, to be 
reimbursed the electricity charge for the dehumidifiers and for compensation to be paid for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by Ageas.
Our investigator didnt  ask Ageas to pay any more towards the claim. She recommended  it 
pay £200 compensation to recognise  unnecessary trouble and upset caused. Ageas 
accepted the investigators opinion, but the estate didnt. So the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.  
During the claim Ageas had various representatives working on its behalf. For simplicity Ive 
referred to their actions  as those of Ageas.  
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Ageas 
pay the claim in full or do anything differently.
The policy terms say Ageas will not pay more than £5,000  for damage caused by an escape 
of water.  The damage was caused  by an escape  of water.  So that limit is relevant  to the 
claim. The estate says its not reasonable to apply it. So it feels  Ageas should pay the claim 
in full. Ive considered whats been  said, but I dont agree. 
Ageas made a mistake by not realising earlier that the limit was there.  How or why that 
happened doesnt affect the impact on the estate or the outcome of the complaint. So Im not 
going into detail  about that. Whats important is that Ageas accepts it got things wrong.
 
This service doesnt only consider if a business did something wrong  or made  a mistake.  We 
also think about what would have been different if the mistake hadnt happened. So we ask if 
the customer, in this case the estate, lost out financially  because  of a mistake.  If we think 
they did we decide what the business  should  do to put them back  in the position  they would 
have been without the mistake.  
Ref: DRN91189552But in this case I cant say the estate lost out financially  out because  of Ageas mistake.  Ive 
thought about what would  have  happened  if it had been aware  of the £5,000 limit from the 
outset. It seems most  likely it would have cash settled the claim by paying £5,000 to the 
estate. Alternatively  it would have undertaken £5,000 of repairs.  Ageas has paid out about 
£11,500 towards the damage.  So the estate has benefited from the policy  more  than it 
probably would have if the mistake  hadnt  happened.  
The estate  says it only agreed to some  items,  such as flooring and carpet, being cut as it 
thought the full claim was going  to be paid. So it feels its been caused  unnecessary  costs.  
But from Ive seen  that strip out work was necessary to dry the property and protect it from 
further damage. So that would need  to have been done by the estate  anyway.   
It seems  the estate may not have  been reimbursed the electricity charge for the 
dehumidifiers. Id often  expect an insurer to cover that. But in this case  the policy  limit has 
already been exceeded.  And the dehumidifiers and so electricity  charge would be necessary 
regardless of Ageas mistake. So Im not making it reimburse the estate that cost.       
So overall I cant say the estate  lost out financially because of Ageas mistake.  I accept it 
would have been better if Ageas hadnt got it wrong.  But its paid out significantly more than 
it would  have. I think thats enough to make up for the impact of its mistake. It wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  to make Ageas pay the claim in full.       
        
Ageas agreed  to pay £200, recommended by our investigator, for trouble and upset it 
caused the executors of the estate. But this service can only award compensation to 
customers  not representatives.  The estate is the customer in this case. So that means I 
havent considered the trouble and upset caused  to the executors. Ageas, though, has 
agreed to pay the executors £200 anyway. 
 
The estate  says it wasnt aware of the £5,000  limit. If the estates unhappy it wasnt  made 
aware of the limit it would need to complain to the broker  that arranged  the policy.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not going to make Ageas Insurance  Limited pay the claim 
in full or do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9118955