K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the information Aviva Insurance Limited gave him about his outpatient 
limit on his private medical insurance  policy, and that there  was a shortfall in his cover.  
background
In early 2017, Mr M used  his private  medical insurance policy for problems he had with his 
knee. On 30 March  2017, he registered a new claim for shoulder pain. He spoke with a case  
manager from BacktoBetter  a specialist service Aviva uses for musculoskeletal injuries. 
They asked him for the procedure code for the treatment he was having  and explained that 
dependent on whether  it was categorised as day-patient or out-patient, it might come  out of 
his outpatient  limit of £2,000. They said he needed  to be very careful with his limit, as he had 
two cases for his knee  and his shoulder, and that BacktoBetter cant see how much  hes 
used.
Shortly after the call, Mr M provided the code. The case manager replied, asking whether it 
would be a day-patient or out-patient procedure, but it seems  they didnt hear back. 
In April and May 2017, Mr M contacted BacktoBetter to discuss what  to do next and both 
times, the case managers suggested  he go back to his consultant.  They said this would be 
covered by the insurance, and it would  come out of his outpatient limit.  
After further consultations, including an MRI scan that didnt affect  his outpatient limit, Mr M 
spoke to BacktoBetter  in June 2017 about  seeing  a different specialist. They discussed his 
outpatient limit. Mr M explained Aviva  told him he used £850  before the MRI scan; 
BacktoBetter said theyd  have to ask Aviva. Later that month, they confirmed he had £16 left 
of his £2,000 limit. 
Mr M found out in July 2017 that he owed £541 following an additional invoice from 
5 June 2017, which took him over his outpatient  limit. He complained  about  this  in 
summary: 
All his visits and treatments were  approved  by Aviva, so he assumed he was within 
his limit. 
Aviva  couldnt provide  information on what his up-to-date usage was, and when  he 
was told, they said he had £16 left, when he actually was over his limit. 
Aviva  didnt have up-to-date  information on his online account  so he wouldnt  have  
been able to check this. 
Aviva said it warned Mr M about  his limit from the outset, and that he didnt  check it until he 
exceeded his limit. When the complaint  was brought to our service, our investigator  didnt 
think that it had acted unfairly.  As Mr M remained unhappy, the complaint has been  passed 
to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that Mr M knew he had an outpatient limit on his policy. But he says that 
because everything  was approved by Aviva, he assumed he was still within this limit. 
Ref: DRN95268172Ive listened to Mr Ms call from 30 March 2017  with BacktoBetter   and I think  its clear  that 
while theyd  approve  cover,  it was Mr Ms responsibility check his outpatient usage with 
Aviva and that BacktoBetter couldnt  see how much hed used. And, having  listened to a 
later call from 12 May 2017, Im satisfied that that he was told again that theyd cover a 
further consultation, and it would come  out of his outpatient limit. So I dont think  Mr M was 
given the impression that having his treatment approved  meant he was still within his limit  
instead, Im satisfied it was clear  that these are distinct matters. 
Ive gone on to consider the information  Mr M was given about  his outpatient limit. Avivas 
records suggest Mr M first checked  this on 19 June 2017  at which  point hed already 
exceeded his outpatient limit. Mr M said he checked  it before   but having reviewed the 
contact records, his online account log-ins and the call recordings provided, theres nothing 
that supports  that. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms point that he couldnt get up-to-date  information  on his usage. So, 
even if he checked  more often, he would never have been able to tell if he had gone over 
the limit. 
I accept that when he called on 19 June 2017, the information wasnt  up-to-date.  But that 
was only a couple of weeks after the appointment that took him over his outpatient limit. And 
indeed, Avivas records suggest they only received this invoice on 19 June 2017. So I dont 
think its unreasonable that the usage didnt include this. Mr M says he was later told in 
October 2017 the same incorrect information  but I think that was clearly an error,  as by 
that stage hed already been asked to pay the balance. And I dont think  this one mistake 
persuades me that Aviva could never  have told him what his usage was based on the 
invoices it had received.  
In saying this, Ive considered that Avivas  records show  that the all the other invoices, that 
used up £1984 of the £2000 limit, were received by 19 April 2017. Of course, I cant be 
certain that Aviva wouldve given  him the correct information after this date. But I dont  need  
to be  civil disputes like these are only ever decided on the balance  of probabilities, so what  
is more likely than not. And here, I think its more likely that Mr M couldve found out hed 
almost used up his limit, if hed asked  for the information before he went ahead with the 
appointment that took him over limit.  
Ive also considered Mr Ms point that he couldnt  check his usage on his online account   
hes provided screenshots that show no invoices, and more recently, only a couple of 
invoices.  
Its difficult for me to conclude that this is what his online account wouldve looked like during 
his treatment from March to June 2017, particularly as his policy  was renewed since  then, 
and its no longer subject to an outpatient limit. And, in any event, Avivas  records show that 
Mr M didnt  log on during this time  so I cant say he wouldve relied on his online account to 
check his outpatient  usage. Instead, it seems more likely he wouldve called,  as he did in 
June 2017. Going further, if Mr M did log in and saw nothing, I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable just to assume he hadnt had any treatment, as he suggests   after all, he 
wouldve known he had. So, in that case,  I think he couldve called Aviva to check. 
So, in all, I think Aviva  was clear with Mr M that he needed to check  his limit, but with the 
evidence Ive got, I dont think he did this until it was too late. And if he had checked sooner, 
I think Aviva  couldve told him that he used  up most  of it. I do understand Mr Ms frustration 
Ref: DRN95268173and disappointment at having to pay the balance himself. But I could  only ask Aviva  to pay it, 
if I thought it had done something wrong   and I dont think  thats the case  here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9526817