K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about problems he has had with a car he purchased with a Hire Purchase  
Agreement with Black  Horse Limited. He would like to reject the car and end his finance  
agreement.
background
Mr K says he bought  a second hand car on 12 May 2018. The car was 8 years  old with a 
mileage over 80,000.  He says in August the oil light came on so he had to have the oil 
pressure switch changed. He paid for this as it wasnt  covered under his warranty.  A 
complete oil service and clean was done under warranty.
Mr K says the oil light came back on in September and continued  to have problems with the 
car. So on 15 November  2018 he raised this with Black Horse.  He says at that point he was 
told that the car had a poor service history which explained the problems.
Black Horse  said that problems with the car were due to the fact it was a second hand car 
and so there was bound to be some general wear and tear. It didnt agree to allow the car to 
be rejected.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She didnt find any evidence  that there was a 
fault at the point of sale.
Mr K didnt accept this view. Our investigator  suggested  he got an independent inspection. 
And if Mr K sent that in she would see if she had any grounds to reconsider her view.
Mr K said he would do this. Our investigator contacted Mr K several times to progress this 
but as Mr K hasnt provided an independent report the complaint  has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr K had a problem  with the oil light coming on soon  
after he bought  his car in May 2018. He has given us evidence  of work done in August 2018 
 an oil service was done under warranty and a replacement oil pressure switch  Mr K paid 
for. 
The issue  for me to decide is whether there  was a fault present or developing at the point of 
sale. If so that might  be grounds  for me to say it would  be fair for Mr K to reject his car.
From the information I have it seems when the garage carried out the oil and filter service it 
recommended Mr K took his car back in three  months time for oil and filter change but Mr K 
doesnt seem to have  done this. That garage didnt note any major or ongoing issues with 
the car at that time.
Since then Mr K had work done  to the car by a friend who is a mechanic. And Mr K has 
given us invoices  for parts  he says he bought for his car. Its not clear  to me if the parts listed  
on the invoices  were for Mr K or his car  as Mr Ks name  isnt on all of the invoices.  
Ref: DRN92194242I can understand why Mr K used a friend to help with any problems with his car. But 
unfortunately that doesnt give me any independent or objective evidence  that there were 
ongoing issues or a problem  developing  or present at the point of sale.  I also cant  be sure of 
the quality of any work carried out and whether that caused any further problems.
Black Horse  has told us that the oil and filter were changed prior to the sale. And the car 
passed its MOT  on 2 May 2018 with no advisories.  I understand the car also passed its 
MOT two years prior to this. 
Black Horse  checked with the garage  that undertook the work  on the oil and filter. It said the 
problems were due to a poor service history. It also checked with the Driver and Vehicle 
Standards Agency (DVLA) to see if there were any known issues  or recalls on Mr Ks car 
relating to the problems he had but there  werent.  It did advise there were two outstanding  
recalls for other issues and recommended Mr K book his car in for these to be addressed.
Mr K has told us that he checked  the MOT history before  he bought the car but not the 
service history. I also understand Mr K told Black Horse that the car wasnt  advertised as 
having a full service  history. I think Mr K might reasonably have thought there  was a risk 
buying a car without a full service history.
I am mindful  Mr K bought  a second hand car with over 80,000 mileages on the clock.  And 
by the time he complained to Black  Horse he had done 8,000 miles.  Unfortunately  its not 
unreasonable to expect  some problems to occur  with second hand  cars bought  with high 
mileage. However  they should be roadworthy  at the point  of sale.
I dont feel I have sufficient information  to enable  me to say there was a fault present or 
developing at the point of sale. The MOT carried out just before the sale didnt report any 
issues or advisories.  The garage Mr K took his car to when he had problems with the oil light 
coming on said it felt the issue  was due to the car not being regularly serviced. 
Mr K did offer to have his car independently  inspected and I think that would have been 
helpful. I feel we have given him a reasonable amount of time to do this but he hasnt  done  
so. So I dont have  any further information for me to consider. 
Taking into account all of the information that I have I dont  feel I can reasonably ask Black  
Horse to take back the car and end Mr Ks finance  agreement as Mr K would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN9219424