K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
From what  we know of how Halifax normally sold PPI policies like Mrs Hs, I think its likely 
Halifax asked whether Mrs H wanted  the PPI  and added it to her application only after 
shed said that she wanted it. 
Mrs H maintains that at no point  was it clear to her the PPI was optional. But from what shes  
told us, she doesnt  remember much about the sale. Thats not surprising, given how long 
ago it was. But, with this in mind,  what  Mrs H has said isnt enough on its own to make me 
think Halifax didnt give her a choice about  the PPI like I think it normally  wouldve.
Ive not seen anything else that makes me think Halifax didnt give Mrs H a choice. So, on 
balance, I think its likely  Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs H didnt have to take the PPI and she 
chose to take it. But I can understand why she might  not remember this now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs H, so it had to check  the PPI was right for her. And 
from what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was right for Mrs H. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
For example, from what shes told us Mrs Hs work  sick pay would halve after six months.  
The PPI would pay out for longer  for a successful claim  up to twelve  months for disability 
and ten months  for unemployment.  And from what shes told us, Mrs H didnt have savings 
or anything  else to help with her payments.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely she chose to take it - so it looks  to me like she wanted this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive already given above, it seems like the cover would have 
been useful for Mrs H if something went wrong   and she couldve claimed on the cover  if 
the circumstances arose.  It also looks like the cover was affordable. Taking  everything into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have put Mrs H off taking it out.
Ive thought about all Mrs Hs points, including what shes said about her work  benefits and 
what shes said about the costs and benefits not being made clear. But, for the reasons Ive 
already given above, these points dont change my decision.
What Ive said above means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mrs H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs H back  some 
Ref: DRN98712282of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Halifax  has 
already paid this to Mrs H.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9871228