K821x#15complaint
Mr Z has complained Harvey & Thompson  Limited, trading as H&T Finance,  is holding him 
liable for a £300 loan he didnt apply for in 2018.
background
After applying for a loan with his bank, Mr Z was told his credit record  showed  a number of 
loans and credit cards.  Hed never  applied for these. One of those loans was with H&T 
Finance. Mr Z also reported  these  loans to the police.
H&T Finance had received a fixed-sum loan application online in Mr Zs name in 
March 2018. Theyd  assessed this and granted a loan for £300. The money  for the loan was 
then paid into Mr Zs joint bank account.  Mr Z held a joint account with his wife at a bank Ill 
call S. This account had been opened  in October 2014 and both Mr Z and his wife, Ms A, 
held debit cards for the account.  Mr Z said he didnt know this account was still active.
H&T Finance confirmed theyd carried out appropriate checks to show  the loan was 
sustainable but didnt really deal with the issue around whether this was Mr Zs loan. Mr Z 
believed he hadnt  applied  for the loan so brought his complaint to the ombudsman service  
(along with other complaints).
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the loan application  and statements 
for Mr Zs joint current account. She felt overall  the evidence pointed to Ms A having applied 
for the loan. It was her telephone number and email address on the loan application. 
However this money had been paid into the joint account. Although  some  of it was then 
transferred to a separate account in Ms As name, she could see Ms A had made transfers 
back into the joint account. Direct debit payments for the loan were  also made from this 
account.
Taking all this into consideration,  she didnt think it would  be fair to ask H&T Finance to not 
hold Mr Z liable for repayment.  She felt in all likelihood hed benefitted  from the loan.
Mr Z disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 April 2020. I believed  Mr Z hadnt applied  for the loan 
so asked H&T Finance  to remove any data about this loan from his credit  record.
H&T Finance disagreed  with this outcome. They felt Mr Z and Ms A could have  colluded  to 
avoid liability.
Mr Z accepted this outcome.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as my provisional decision whilst taking into account  what H&T Finance has said. 
Ill explain  further.
Ref: DRN98925072There are a number of key aspects  to this complaint. Did Mr Z apply for the loan? Did he 
benefit from the funds? And whether this loan has now been  repaid?
loan application
There is no dispute that the loan application  was made in Mr Zs name. However the 
personal details   including the debit card information  all belonged to Ms A. That doesnt 
alone mean Mr Z was unaware of these loans. He could have deliberately made the 
application using  his wifes personal  details. However looking at the other loans Mr Z has 
also complained  about, it seems  clear there is a pattern of loans  being  taken out without his 
knowledge. 
Our investigator has also talked to Ms A about this loan and others. Shes  admitted  she took 
out this loan.
I agree  its most likely this loan was taken out by his wife, based on what I know about Mr Zs 
other complaints and the evidence from Ms A.
what happened to the funds?
In her view of 10 February, our investigator showed the loan payment being made into the S 
account and payments that took place on that account just after that. Ive looked at the detail 
of the transactions on the S account from June 2017  to August 2018. This was very much 
run as a household account and contained card payments to supermarkets and retailers, 
direct debits for household bills including Council Tax, direct  debits  for numerous loans, 
transfers between  Ms As sole account with S and this account and payments for what looks  
like childcare or nursery fees.
Mr Z has told us he knew this account  had been  opened but thought it only operated as a 
savings account  for their son. But I can see he used the debit card he held for this account  in 
March 2018. He has told us he thought his wife may have used the card. But I think this is 
unlikely as she had a card of her own (which she did use) so I cant see why shed also have 
used her husbands card as well.
Overall there is evidence from Ms A and the statements of the S account  that show the 
household benefitted from the loan funds.
Theres no doubt this loan, along with others, would have resulted in quite a deal of 
paperwork. Mr Z has told us that his wife managed the family finances and that, in itself,  isnt 
an unusual arrangement. But for Ms A to have hidden all this activity  from Mr Z would have 
meant quite a lot of subterfuge and sneaking around. Its difficult to imagine this wouldnt 
have been noticed by Mr Z. I appreciate  hes told us that he believed  his wife earned more 
than him which  explained  why there was the money  available that came  from the loans.  
From what  Ive seen, Ms A also managed to keep her actual job secret  from Mr Z. 
Ms A has confirmed a lot of the money went to refurbish another  property (which has since 
been sold) as well as on buying  household items.
What shes also confirmed is that shes taken steps to repay  the debts. This loan with H&T 
Finance has been  fully repaid. H&T Finance following  the provisional decision did not argue 
the position was otherwise.
Ref: DRN98925073I understand from conversations with both Mr Z and Ms A that what  has happened has had a 
devastating impact on their relationship and their family.
Id considered whether it was possible that Mr Z and Ms A had colluded  in saying shed 
applied for the loan when  in fact it had been Mr Z before I completed  the provisional  
decision. But I believe the cumulative evidence Mr Z has presented to us. In the case of this 
loan H&T Finance have  been repaid so I now believe its fair no further liability lies with Mr Z.
Based on what we now know, I believe Mr Z didnt apply for this loan. As H&T Finance has 
no contractual agreement with him, they cant place information about  this loan on Mr Zs 
credit record. All data about this agreement will need to be removed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Harvey  & Thompson Limited, 
trading as H&T Finance, to remove all data from Mr Zs credit record  about this loan taken 
out by his wife.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9892507