K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Somerset  Bridge Insurance Services  Limited.  He isnt happy 
that it cancelled  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr G took out car insurance through his broker, Somerset Bridge,  who placed a credit 
agreement with another company on his behalf.  
Mr G looked to change  the day he paid for his policy and was told he couldnt, and his 
monthly payment  failed.  But Mr G contacted Somerset Bridge and made the outstanding  
payment to the credit provider. However, there  was miscommunication between  the credit 
provider and Somerset Bridge. And it went on to cancel Mr Gs policy  (believing  incorrectly 
that payment  hadnt been made).
Mr G complained to this service as he had to get cover elsewhere,  pay a higher premium 
and was chased in relation to the outstanding debt. Our investigator  looked into things for 
him and upheld his complaint. He was of the view that the policy was cancelled  in error and 
that Somerset Bridge  should ask the insurer to remove any cancellation  marker,  pay Mr G 
£300 compensation for the stress  and inconvenience  caused and provide a letter explaining 
that the cancellation wasnt Mr Gs fault.
Somerset Bridge didnt agree. It was of the view that fault lay with the credit provider and so 
the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.
Although I can understand Somerset Bridges  point. The credit provider told it incorrectly  that 
Mr G hadnt paid his outstanding premium,  when he had. But I believe  it should  take 
responsibility for the error.  Ill explain why.
It is accepted that Mr G paid his premium and that his policy  shouldnt  have been  cancelled. 
Somerset Bridge should have  double  checked  the position with its credit provider before 
cancelling the policy. And, in any event,  it chose and put in place the credit provider so it 
should take responsibility for their actions.  Furthermore, the credit provider cant put Mr G 
back into the position he should have  been but for the error. The credit  company didnt 
cancel the policy,  couldnt have taken  any steps  to put cover back in place once the error 
was made,  or look to take corrective action now by looking to remove  cancellation markers 
and providing  a letter of explanation to Mr G. 
So the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Somerset Bridge to take responsibility for cancelling the policy in error. It should  look to 
remove any cancellation markers from any internal and external databases  and ask the 
underwriter to do the same. And to provide a letter of explanation  to Mr G so that he can ask 
his new insurers to provide him with the correct cover. It should also ensure that all 
cancellation costs  are refunded to Mr G as the policy was cancelled incorrectly.
Ref: DRN92354322I note that Somerset  Bridge has suggested  that Mr G was partly  responsible  for the 
cancellation as he contacted the credit provider direct about payment. I dont think  Mr G can 
be criticised for looking to make payment as quickly as he could. And it was Somerset  
Bridges responsibility  to ensure that its chosen  credit provider updated it accordingly.
Turning to the level of compensation, I agree that Mr G should  be awarded £300.  I can see 
the cancellation has caused  Mr G a great deal of stress and inconvenience.  He has had to 
deal with the stress and increased  costs  of premiums as he has had an insurance policy 
cancelled at a particularly difficult financial time.  And I agree  that some  of Somerset Bridges 
communications were  insensitive given  the difficult position its cancellation put Mr G in.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset 
Bridge Insurance  Services Limited  to; 
remove any reference to the cancellation from all internal and external databases 
and if it needs  to approach the underwriter  for this it should,
write a letter to Mr G explaining the policy was cancelled in error  so Mr G can provide 
this letter  of explanation to his current insurance provider which  can adjust his 
premium accordingly, 
refund  any cancellation  costs Mr G incurred if it hasnt already, and
pay Mr G £300  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9235432