K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains about an insurance  policy he took out with U K Insurance  Limited t/a 
Churchill Insurance ("UKI"). He says that due to water damage to a kitchen cupboard  UKI 
should pay for a full kitchen refit, including  replacement  of undamaged cupboard carcasses.  
He says replacing only the damaged  cupboard carcass would mean  that it did not match the 
rest of his kitchen.  
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a family  member but for simplicity Ill refer to all 
submissions from Mr P and the family as if theyve  been made by Mr P.
Background
In April 2018 Mr Ps kitchen was damaged by an escape of water. He contacted UKI to make 
a claim under his insurance policy. He says he was told by UKI that it would not be able 
arrange for a repair and that he should obtain some estimates for the kitchen. Mr P says that 
the companies that provided the estimates  told him that it would not be possible to provide 
an exact match for the carcass of a damaged kitchen cupboard and Mr P says that this 
means UKI should  provide  a full kitchen refit, including replacing  all of the undamaged 
cupboard carcasses.  
Mr P also complains that that UKI has caused  delays and he has been  given misleading 
information by its agents. He says he has obtained  estimates as UKI wanted, but that it has 
now changed its mind  on how it will settle his claim.  He says UKI originally said it would pay 
for the full refit of his kitchen but has changed its mind because  of the cost. Mr P says that 
he should be compensated  for this. 
UKI says that the policy does cover matching items if damaged parts  cant be repaired or 
replaced, but in this case the damaged carcass is a standard  size and can be replaced. It 
has also offered to replace the external visible parts of the kitchen  including unit fronts, 
doors, drawer fronts, kick plates and side panels  and any water damaged carcass.  It says 
that the kitchen  cupboard carcasses  are not visible  and so replacing the undamaged  ones is 
unnecessary and would be disproportionate. 
UKI also said that it had offered Mr P £150 compensation for its delays and misleading 
information. And it also said Mr P is no longer allowing  it or its agents access  to the kitchen 
to inspect it. 
Mr P says that the replacement for the damaged carcass would not be an exact  match with 
the rest of the kitchen cupboard carcasses. He says the insurance policy  states that 
everything that forms a matching part of the kitchen that is undamaged will be matched, that 
there are no exclusions and the undamaged  carcasses should be replaced too as part of the 
fitted kitchen. He also says UKI should  not be able to change its mind  on how to settle his 
claim. 
Mr P referred the complaint to our service as he was unhappy  with the response from UKI.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and considered further  information  from both Mr P 
and UKI. In summary, our investigator concluded that UKI had offered to pay reasonable 
Ref: DRN93754602compensation for the delays and misleading information. She also concluded that the 
damaged carcass could  be replaced  within the terms of the policy  and therefore  the 
matching sets term wouldnt apply and UKI didnt need to replace or cover  the cost of 
replacing the undamaged carcasses. 
Our investigator also said that if Mr P didnt allow UKI access  to inspect the kitchen, it would 
be reasonable for UKI to settle the claim as a cash payment of the cost to it to replace the 
damaged carcass based on the information  it already has.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He says under the terms of the policy UKI must 
replace all of the undamaged carcasses, because replacing the damaged  one means it will 
not match the rest of the kitchen. He also says that UKI should  not be able to change  their 
mind on how they settle the claim.  The complaint was therefore referred to me for final 
consideration.
My findings
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator, for much  the same reasons.
I have looked  carefully  at the terms of the insurance  policy and I can see two terms in the 
policy that could  apply in this case;  these are: 
We wont pay: 
to alter or restore  any undamaged part of the buildings
to replace or alter any undamaged items solely because  they are part of a set, suite, 
group or collection, unless  they are part of a bathroom suite or fitted  kitchen and the 
damaged parts cant be repaired or replaced.
and
If part of a set suite, group  or collection of Items is lost or damaged,  and we cant  
replace or repair it we will:
replace  the set, suite, group or collection of items as new
pay the cost of replacing the set, suite, group or collection of items as new up to the 
amount it would  have cost us to replace the item using our own suppliers or
if no equivalent or replacement set, suite, group or collection of items  is available, 
pay the full cost of the item
Both of these terms in the policy only require UKI to replace, or pay the cost of replacement, 
items which are part of a set if the damaged parts cant be repaired or replaced. 
In this case UKI has said the damaged  item, a standard cupboard  carcass, can be replaced 
with a like for like new standard white cupboard  carcass and therefore it does not have to 
replace all of the other undamaged cupboard  carcasses  in the fitted  kitchen. Mr P says that 
this will mean the one replacement new cupboard carcass will not match  the other 
Ref: DRN93754603undamaged cupboard carcasses. However, I do not think that this means UKI is required to 
replace them  all under  the terms of the policy.
I note that UKI have  agreed to replace  the external visible parts  of the kitchen including  unit 
fronts, doors, drawer fronts, kick plates  and side panels and any water  damaged  carcass.  
And I consider this to be fair and reasonable. In these circumstances, I dont think  it would  
be fair to expect UKI to replace all the carcasses (which  cant be seen)  simply because  one 
of them  is damaged.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration that UKI has changed its mind  on how it wishes to settle  
the claim,  however there is nothing I can see to prevent it from doing so in this case. I have 
considered the £150 compensation UKI has offered for its delays  and misleading  
information, and I think that this is also fair and reasonable.
In all the circumstances, and while I realise  Mr P will be disappointed,  I dont think that UKI 
should be required to replace or cover the cost of replacing the undamaged carcasses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Garry Hunter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9375460