K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005 in connection with a mortgage.  Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold  
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs M about that. Because BoS 
didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she has said about not 
knowing that she had been sold PPI and that she wasnt given an option  to decline PPI. But 
these points dont  change my decision. Ive seen some of the documents  from the time of 
the sale and I think these make it clear  that Mrs M would have been aware that she had 
taken out PPI. And the mortgage  offer also made  it clear that Mrs M wouldnt have had to 
take PPI to get the mortgage.
what the Bank of Scotland Plc needs  to do
Ref: DRN96307272BoS has to pay back  to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also pay Mrs M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9630727