K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr R was sold PPI alongside a credit card in 2001.
The policy cost around 73p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  It wouldve  paid 
10% of the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months  if Mr R was off work sick or lost 
his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Based on Mr Rs age and circumstances at the time of the sale,  Im satisfied  he was eligible 
under the policy.
Capital One had to make it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr R says that he was unaware PPI had been  
added to his account. He says he didnt need PPI and wouldnt have knowingly taken it out 
because he had sufficient  existing repayment provisions through  his employer  and family  
support.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has told us and looked  to the documents  from the 
time of the sale to help me decide  what is more likely to have happened during the sale.  
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think the PPI was sold during  a postal sale with no 
involvement from a representative.  
Ive seen a copy  of the credit application  Mr R completed at the time of the sale.  I can see 
that Mr R would have  been presented with two equally  clear options to take or refuse  PPI  
the option to take PPI was selected and Mr R signed this form. 
So, while I appreciate what Mr R has told us, based  on the evidence available to me, I think 
its more likely that Mr R would have  been aware  he had been sold PPI. I think  PPI was 
presented as optional and that it was only applied to his account because  he chose to take it 
out. Of course I understand Mr R may now no longer recall  this given the length of time since 
the sale.
Ref: DRN90752752I dont think Capital One advised  Mr R to take the policy  out. This means they didnt have  to 
take adequate steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr R. So for example,  they didnt 
need to take into account  Mr Rs existing  repayment provisions, such  as what  he has told us 
about his employee  benefits and family support.
But they still had to give Mr R information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way    in 
particular about  the costs/benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions  in the policy  - so that he 
could make an informed  decision  about whether or not to take the policy  out.
I dont think Capital One gave Mr R all of the information as they shouldve  about the 
costs/benefits and main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy.  This in itself doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better  information  wouldve put 
Mr R off taking  the policy.  I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Rs employee sick pay and for a longer 
period of time. It would also have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R lost his job.
-Mr R didnt appear to have been  affected  by the main exclusions or restrictive  terms 
in the policy  which  wouldve  made  it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
-Mr R couldve  cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
no longer needed  or wanted it.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr R.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Capital One mis-sold Mr R this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against  Capital  One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9075275