K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that the market value  and salvage fee Liverpool Victoria Insurance
Company Limited  (LV) applied when he made a claim under his car insurance  policy  are
unfair.
background
Mr S was involved  in an incident  and he made a claim to his insurer,  LV. In February 2018
LV said Mr Ss car wasnt economical to repair - as the costs to repair it were more  than the
cars market  value. So it told Mr S it would  pay him a market  value for his car of £3,295.  This
was based on the main  motor trade  guides  for the make and model  of his car.
Mr S didnt accept the valuation LV gave.  But LV said it was fair and it had reached it in line
with the policy terms. It told Mr S if he wanted  to keep his car, LV would deduct a salvage
fee of £922. It later agreed to reduce  this fee to £780.
Mr S remained unhappy.  So he asked us to look at his complaint. Mr S said LV told him in a
call that it would reduce  the salvage fee to £722.
LV told us it agreed  to reduce the salvage fee to £780 for Mr S. Our investigator thought  LV
had reached its valuation for Mr Ss car in a reasonable  way and in line with our approach.
But he didnt  think LV had provided enough to show it had reached its salvage fee in a fair
way. So our investigator recommended LV reduce the salvage  fee to 20% of the market
value of £3,295.
LV didnt agree and provided  further  information  from its engineer  and data showing salvage
fees it had obtained for the previous year for the same make of car as Mr Ss.
Mr S insisted LV told him in a phone call that it would reduce the salvage fee to £722.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February  2019.  I thought  LV had shown  that its salvage 
fee of £780 was fair and reasonable. So I didnt  intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S says hes received  my provisional decision. He hasnt made any comments.  LV hasnt 
replied to my provisional decision. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new information  
to consider, my final decision remains along  the same lines as my provisional  decision. 
Mr Ss policy  with LV says that the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value
of his car at the time of loss. We have a long standing approach to valuation  complaints. We
think that generally the fairest way to decide a valuation  for a car is to look at the main  motor
trade guides. They provide valuations based  on likely selling prices  but they can provide
these based on the make, model,  age, mileage and condition of a particular car. We find
they are more reliable  than adverts as these  can vary widely. And they tend to be a starting
point to negotiate a price  down from the initial advertised price.
Ref: DRN99573972We checked the main  motor trade  guides  and found that LV had paid Mr S higher than the
average of the guides. LV recognised  that Mr Ss car was in very good  condition and had
lower than average mileage for its age. So I dont think LV has been  unreasonable  to Mr S in
deciding a market  value for his car at £3,295.
LV has provided  recordings  of the calls Mr S had with it when he discussed the salvage fee.
Mr S was unhappy with the market value the engineer gave him. So a senior  reviewer  called
Mr S to discuss  his concerns. In this call LV agreed to reduce the salvage fee to £780.  So I
dont have any evidence  to support Mr Ss view that LV told him it would reduce the salvage
fee to £722.
When an insurer allows a customer to retain the salvage, it will usually deduct what it would
have received when disposing  of the salvage.  Most  insurers have a commercial
arrangement with a salvage dealer. We generally think its fair for an insurer to do this,
provided it can show it would have received the amount its deducted. This is because its a
general principle of insurance  that when an insurer pays out for a total loss, it gets to retain
the damaged  item if its available - or if its stolen and recovered. We dont think it would be
fair for an insurer to lose out as a result  of the customer keeping their car.
LV has provided  evidence  of how it reached a salvage fee for Mr Ss car at £922. And its
provided examples  of salvage fees it received  for the make and model of Mr Ss car over the
previous year to demonstrate that the salvage fee it applied to Mr Ss car is within  this range.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think the reduced salvage fee of £780 which LV intends to apply
to Mr Ss car if he decides  to keep it  is within  the range of reasonable. So I dont think  LV
should reduce  the fee any further.
This means  I dont  intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is because I think  LV dealt with 
his claim reasonably  and in line with the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957397