K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the decision by Liverpool Victoria  Financial Services  Limited 
(LV) to terminate his claim under his income  protection insurance policy and to void the 
policy because of an alleged misrepresentation by Mr S when he applied for the policy.
background
In July 2016, Mr S applied  to take out an income  protection insurance policy  with LV. The 
policy, after a four week deferred period, would pay a monthly  benefit  of £1,000 in the event 
that Mr S was unable  to work due to illness or injury.  When applying for the policy, Mr S was 
asked a number  of questions about his medical  history. He disclosed that in the past five 
years hed suffered  from back pain (which he said had resolved more than three years ago) 
and leg muscle pain.  LV accepted the application  and the policy began in August 2016.
In December 2016, Mr S made a claim under the policy after breaking a toe. LV accepted 
the claim and paid benefit of £1,549 until Mr S was able to return to work in January 2017.
In December 2017, Mr B made another claim under the policy after suffering problems with 
his back. LV accepted the claim and began paying  benefit. However, in October 2018, by 
which time it had paid £9,593 in benefit under the claim, LV received information  which  
indicated Mr S may have  made a misrepresentation when applying  for the policy.  It 
suspended benefit payments while it looked  into the matter.
In January 2019, LV told Mr S that it believed  he hadnt answered  the questions  on the 
application form correctly.  It said that he should have disclosed his significant  history of 
groin, shoulder and back pain, and that he had been  diagnosed with osteoarthritis of the 
right hip with subchondral cysts. It said this information would have caused it to not offer him 
the policy. In view of this, it said it was terminating  his claim and voiding the policy.  It further 
said that Mr S needed to pay back £10,756, which was the total amount he had received in 
benefit for the two claims less the total amount he had paid in premiums.
Mr S complained to LV but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr S therefore referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that Mr S had failed  to disclose material information  and that LV had acted fairly.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the undisclosed groin, shoulder and 
back pain had been minor and hadnt required him to take any time off work. He said he 
hadnt been told of the diagnosis of osteoarthritis at the time it was made and so was 
unaware of this when  he completed the application. He said that hed disclosed relevant 
information and had given LV permission to seek his medical  records.  He considered it had 
failed to make sufficient enquiries,  including in a telephone call with him, when it assessed 
his application.  He thought it was unfair for it to seek to re-underwrite the policy at this stage.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN97654372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
When Mr S completed the application in July 2016, he was asked the following questions:
In the last 5 years, have you had any of the following (This is regardless of whether or not 
you have seen your doctor  or required treatment):
- any joint,  bone or muscle pain, fracture, gout or arthritis?
- any back  or neck condition, including pain, sciatica or whiplash?
I am satisfied that these  questions are clear.
Mr S initially  answered no to the question about  joint, bone or muscle pain. He answered  
yes to the question about back or neck conditions and said that hed suffered one episode  
of back pain which had lasted for ten days but which  had resolved between three and five 
years ago (i.e. before July 2013).
When LV sent Mr S a summary of his answers  and invited him to check these, he amended  
his answer to the question about joint, bone  and muscle pain. He said that hed suffered right 
leg muscle pain about one and a half years ago but that this hadnt caused him to take any 
time off work.
LV rang Mr S to ask him about his amended answer. Ive listened  to the phone call. Mr S 
said that hed hurt his ankle in the gym but recovered after a week or so and hadnt needed 
any time off work.
It was on the basis  of the information above that LV agreed to provide cover.
After LV eventually obtained his medical records for the relevant period, it noted that in the 
three years before the policy started, Mr S had visited  his GP at various times complaining of 
groin, shoulder and back pain. He had also been  diagnosed  with osteoarthritis in his right 
hip, which the doctor had remarked on as being unusual  in someone his age. It considered 
that Mr S should have  disclosed  this information  in his application.
Mr S has said that the groin, shoulder and back pain was insignificant and hadnt required  
him to take any time off work. He has provided  evidence from his employer in support of this. 
However, the question  he was asked was whether he had experienced any of the listed  
conditions; the issue of whether it had resulted in time off work wasnt mentioned.  Given  that 
Mr S had experienced groin, shoulder  and back pain (beyond the back pain he had already 
disclosed), I consider he should reasonably have disclosed this in response to the questions 
he was asked. I say this particularly as the pain in each case  was sufficient  for him to visit 
his GP and resulted in him undergoing a scan and physiotherapy treatment.
Mr S has said he couldnt disclose the diagnosis  of osteoarthritis because  he was unaware 
of this. The diagnosis  was made  in August 2015  after Mr S had visited a hospital accident 
and emergency  department with groin pain. Mr S says he wasnt  told of the osteoarthritis 
Ref: DRN97654373diagnosis at the time but was simply told he had a groin strain and needed to rest for a 
couple of weeks.
Its not clear to me from the evidence as to whether Mr S should  reasonably  have known 
about the osteoarthritis diagnosis. However,  I dont think that this matters. This is because  I 
have already explained that I consider Mr S should  have  disclosed information about his 
groin, shoulder and back pain. And LV has provided evidence  from its underwriter  from 
which I am satisfied that if he had done so then this, in itself, would have resulted in LV 
refusing him cover.
Mr S has said that LV should  have asked  him further questions  about  his health when it rang 
him. However, it was contacting him specifically to ask for further details of the leg muscle 
pain which  he had disclosed. I wouldnt have expected LV to ask Mr S more wide-ranging 
questions at this point, given that hed had the opportunity to disclose material information in 
response to the questions  on the application form. 
Mr S has also pointed  out that, when applying for his policy, he had given permission for LV 
to obtain his medical records if it wished. This is true, but it didnt  remove Mr Ss obligation to 
answer truthfully the questions he was asked.
I consider that Mr S was careless  in failing to answer clear questions  correctly when he 
applied for the policy. LV has shown that, if Mr S had answered the questions  correctly, it 
wouldnt have offered cover. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 sets out that, in situations  such as this, the insurer is entitled to void the policy. This 
being the case, Im satisfied that LV was entitled  to take this action. Furthermore,  given the 
policy is to be treated as though it never existed, I consider it is reasonable for LV to seek to 
recover its costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9765437