K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about a Green Deal loan provided  by Grosvenor Credit Management & 
Investigations Ltd. 
He says he didnt  know he was taking out a loan. He says he thought  he was entering into a 
government scheme that would  reduce  his electricity bills. Instead he says his bills have 
increased and he has a loan which he cant repay.
background
Mr B was initially  represented by a charitable  organisation which helps people living in fuel 
poverty. Hes now being  represented by a retired director of that charity. For ease Ill refer 
only to Mr B in this decision.  Ill refer to the business  as Grosvenor.
In early 2015 Mr B was looking for ways  of reducing  his electricity bills. Hed heard of the 
Green Deal and he arranged for an assessor  to visit.
Mr B says the assessor  told him the house  was one of the worst hed seen in terms of 
energy efficiency and that Mr B would qualify  for the maximum improvements.
In June 2015 Mr B entered into a Green  Deal credit  agreement  with Grosvenor. He borrowed 
£10,670 repayable over 25 years.  The credit  agreement said the loan was to fund the 
following energy  saving measures:
Loft insulation  £5,600
External wall insulation £4,400
Cavity wall insulation £9,200
The total cost was £19,200. It appears the balance of £8,530  was paid either by Mr B from 
his savings or by a combination of a contribution from Mr B and some form of subsidy.  
Mr B says he didnt know he was taking out a loan. He says he thought it was a free scheme 
paid for by the government. He says he was on benefits at the time and had mental health 
problems. He says he felt rushed for signatures  and decisions. 
Grosvenor didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It said the arrangement complied with the golden 
rule and that Mr B had signed  to say he was satisfied with the work.  It said its records  
indicated that Mr B was in full employment  at the time and that he passed its credit checks. It 
said it was not aware of any difficulties or vulnerability and that the loan payments were 
deducted from savings  made on energy bills, so avoiding the need to fund through other  
means. It said this went some way to help those with financial difficulties.
Mr B then brought  his complaint to us. One of our investigators wrote to Grosvenor on 
18 March 2019  explaining why she thought the complaint should  be upheld.
Briefly, she didnt think things had been  fully explained  to Mr B. She thought it unlikely hed 
been made aware he was taking out a long-term  loan. She also had concerns about  whether 
the golden rule had been  met. Mr Bs energy  bills appeared  to have increased significantly 
and the energy efficiency rating  of his home hadnt improved since having  the measures 
installed.
Ref: DRN93004282Our investigator set out her recommendation of what  she thought Grosvenor should do to 
put things right, including  cancelling the loan.
Grosvenor didnt agree. In addition to its earlier arguments it said that it had sold the loan to 
the Green Deal Finance Company (GDFC) and so couldnt cancel the loan even if it agreed, 
which it didnt.
The complaint was then passed to me to review. I thought there were further things that 
needed to be addressed  before I could  make a decision. I thought it was fair that Grosvenor 
should have an opportunity to comment on those things and to see the information we were 
relying on.
Another of our investigators then wrote to the parties on 26 November 2019. As well as 
expanding on some of the arguments  already made she pointed out that the cost of the 
measures seemed unusually high, compared  with what  might  ordinarily  be expected. She 
was concerned that the costs had been inflated, allowing Mr B to borrow more than should 
have been available to him under the scheme.  She suggested that, at typical costs, Mr B 
would have been able to pay for the measures himself, without needing to take out a loan.
Grosvenor didnt agree. It restated its earlier arguments and said that the high costs  were 
because Mr Bs property was in a poor state  of repair.  It said the property needed  a lot of 
preparation work before the measures  could be installed.
It also said it thought  it was unfair that it was being penalised for a loan it no longer owned.
The matter  has now been passed back to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable Im required  to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have  been  good  industry  practice at the relevant time.
Mr B signed  the credit  agreement in August 2014. This was after the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  took over the regulation of consumer credit firms, like Grosvenor, in 
April 2014. 
The FCA confirmed that from April 2014  all consumer  credit firms must, amongst other 
things, adhere to FCAs high-level  standards: the Principles for Businesses, the relevant 
systems and controls rules and the Conduct rules  Consumer  Credit sourcebook.
The FCA principles apply  to all authorised firms including  Grosvenor. Of particular 
relevance to this complaint are:
Principle 6 A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
Ref: DRN93004283Principle 7 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients,  and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
Principle 9 A firm must take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability of its advice  and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon  its judgment.
In addition, the more detailed FCAs Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) rules apply. 
And so it is relevant  to take those into account. Of particular relevance to this complaint 
are:
CONC 2.3.2
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated  credit agreement  to enable  
the customer  to make  an informed choice  as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate 
explanations).
CONC 4.2.5
(1)  Before making a regulated credit  agreement the firm must:
(a)provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred to in (2) 
in order to place the customer  in a position  to assess whether the agreement  is 
adapted to the customers needs  and financial situation;....
(2)  The matters referred  to in (1)(a) are:
(a)  the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  under the 
agreement unsuitable  for particular types of use;
(b)  how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where  the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c)  the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  would have a 
significant adverse  effect on the customer in a way which  the customer  is unlikely to 
foresee;.............
As regards  the Green Deal plan itself, the Green Deal guidance issued by the Department of 
Energy & Climate Change  (now  part of the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial 
Strategy) states that the Green Deal Provider must establish that the Green  Deal Plan 
(which includes the credit agreement)  is in line with requirements set out in:
(i) the Energy  Act 2011;
(ii) the Green Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) 
Regulations (the Framework Regulations); and 
(iii) the Green Deal Code of Practice (CoP).  
Amongst other things the Energy Act 2011  sets out one of the conditions of the Green Deal 
is that the Green Deal Provider meets any requirement specified in the Framework 
Regulations as to the relationship between the estimated total of the proposed instalments, 
and the estimate  they gave on the basis specified in the framework regulations, of the 
savings likely to be made on the energy bills for the property if the improvements are carried 
out (Section 4(7)). And this is set out in No.30  of the Framework  Regulations (the golden 
rule). 
Ref: DRN93004284The CoP effectively incorporates the key provisions  of the Act and the Framework. The 
complaint is in relation to miss-selling and if this happened between 24 June 2014 - 06 July 
2017, the following provisions of Version  4 of the CoP are most relevant:
Para 2.7: 
A Green Deal Participant or Certification  Body must act honestly and fairly and must not 
do anything which might bring the Green  Deal scheme into disrepute.  They must not 
mislead customers whether by act or omission. 
Annex B 
Clause 18:
Where  an offer of a Green Deal Plan is made in respect of a domestic property, the Green  
Deal Provider must discuss with the improver and bill payer, in light of the households 
actual energy use estimated in the Green  Deal Advice Report,  whether   
(a) instalments payable under the Green Deal Plan are likely to be fully offset by savings on 
energy bills for the property resulting from installation  of the improvements; 
(b) the amount  of instalments to be paid under a Green Deal Plan should  be set at an 
amount which  is lower than the cap on instalments, to ensure that the Green  Deal Plan is 
affordable to the bill payer and meets their needs  and financial  situation. 
Clause 23: 
A Green Deal Provider must ensure it uses realistic figures when discussing potential 
future energy price changes with improvers  or bill payers. It must also make clear  when 
doing so that projected prices are only a prediction,  and that the actual price changes over 
time may be different.
Clause 29: 
The Framework Regulations set out conditions restricting the amou nt of the instalments 
that can be charged under a Green Deal Plan (see in particular regulations 28 and 30 and 
regulation 33). These conditions must always be compl ied with by Green Deal Providers, 
and failure to do so will mean that an arrangement does not qualify as a Green Deal Plan.
Clause 54:
The Green  Deal Provider must notify the improver and the bill payer that the instalments 
payable under the Green Deal Plan will be added to the electricity bill for the property and 
discuss with them the impact the Green  Deal improvements could  have on the energy 
bills for the property. This information may be provided to the bill payer  in writing but, 
where this is done, the Green  Deal Provider must:
(a) advise the bill payer how to ask the Green Deal Provider for further  information  and 
explanation; and
(b) provide the bill payer with an opportunity to ask questions about  the Green Deal Plan. 
I consider the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  to also be of particular relevance to this complaint. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  deals with negotiations between Grosvenor as 
creditor and Mr B in relation to the making  of the credit agreement. These  negotiations shall 
Ref: DRN93004285be taken to begin when Grosvenor first communicated with Mr B (including any adverts) and 
include any representations  made  by Grosvenor  to Mr B and any other dealings between  
them. 
As the Green Deal provider Grosvenors role was to provide the finance for the 
improvements being installed, manage the overall  improvement  project and meet various  
obligations set out in the CoP.
One of its obligations was to fairly  and clearly explain the credit agreement  and the fact that 
instalments payable under the plan would be added to Mr Bs energy bill. It also had to notify 
Mr B of any savings estimates  and whether these were likely  to offset the instalments.  It had 
to act fairly  towards Mr B.
Mr B and Grosvenor dont agree on how all this was explained at the time.  In this sort of 
situation I decide, based on the information  provided, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened.
Did Mr B understand that he would be taking out a long term loan repayable though his 
energy bills?
Its difficult to know  how the Green  Deal arrangement  was explained to Mr B. But I agree 
with our investigators that its unlikely the credit  agreement, and what  it meant  in terms of 
repayments, was fairly  and clearly explained to Mr B. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs house wasnt energy efficient. When he bought the house in 2008 the Energy  
Performance Certificate (EPC) showed an energy efficiency rating  of 34 and typical energy 
costs of £789 a year.
A pre-installation EPC,  dated January 2015, shows an energy rating of only 1. Mr Bs 
electricity costs in the year before he took out the Green Deal were around  £960. There  was 
no gas connection at the property and Mr B says the house was heated by electric  storage 
heaters which  werent energy efficient. Its understandable, in these circumstances, that 
Mr B was looking  for ways  of reducing  his bills and that he would be attracted  by a scheme 
that he believed  would  make his home more energy efficient and save  him money.
But Mr B was 57 years old at the time of the sale and says he was reliant on benefits.  He 
says he wasnt told the arrangement was a loan. He says he was told the scheme  was free, 
paid for by the government. He says: at no time were we told our energy bills would be in 
the hundreds  to pay off a loan when  we were only paying £80 a month at the time and he 
also says why would I sign to say Id pay double through my electricity bill.
It appears that following the increase  in the energy bills due to the Green Deal cost Mr B 
approached a charity  which helps  people living in fuel poverty. The charity  asked Mr Bs 
energy provider not to add the Green  Deal charges as he was finding  it difficult to make  the 
payments. This adds  weight to Mr Bs testimony that he wasnt made  aware of the Green 
Deal loan or the consequences of entering into the Green Deal agreement.  
I also think its puzzling that Mr B seems to have  stopped paying his electricity  bills once the 
improvements were made. That suggests there was some misunderstanding  on Mr Bs part 
about how the arrangement worked and how much hed have to pay.
Ref: DRN93004286Further, I note that the term of the loan was 25 years. I think  its unlikely Mr B would  
knowingly have entered into a long term credit agreement which  would run into his 80s.
So, taking everything  into account, I find Mr Bs testimony persuasive.  
I appreciate that Mr B signed  the paperwork.  But that doesnt necessarily mean it was 
properly explained  to him or that he understood what it meant. He says he thought he was 
getting a government grant. So, hed have been  expecting to provide information and sign 
documents in relation to that. 
On balance, Im not persuaded  that Grosvenor adequately explained to Mr B that he was 
taking out a long-term loan or that he would need to repay this through his energy  bills. 
Was the loan affordable?
Mr B says he was reliant on benefits  at the time of the installation and that the Green  Deal 
plan caused him financial  difficulties. As noted  earlier, a charity which  helps people  living  in 
fuel poverty helped  him to make his complaint. 
Mr Bs representative told us that, at the time of the sale, Mr Bs home was heated by the old 
storage-heater technology. When  the charity became  involved these had been removed and 
the charity donated  emergency portable  oil-filled radiators and fleece blankets. Subsequently 
it provided and installed  some high-specification  electric radiators and an electric  fan for the 
bathroom. 
The charitys  involvement and the fact that it considered  Mr Bs situation  and provided  this 
support suggests  that Mr B was and continues to be in financial difficulties.
On the other hand, Grosvenor says Mr B was employed at the time and passed its credit 
checks. It has referred me to an income  and expenditure  affordability check form signed  by 
Mr B. 
Mr B says he thinks the salesperson doctored the paperwork  so the loan would  be 
approved.
The evidence is conflicting and I cant be certain about Mr Bs financial situation at the time 
of the sale. But, as I explain below, my decision  doesnt rest on it, so I dont  think  its 
necessary to look into this further.
Did Mr B achieve the savings hed been told hed get  and were  these ever realistic?
I share  our two investigators  concerns about how the estimated savings were  calculated 
and explained  to Mr B.
The estimated savings determine the amount that can be borrowed,  and so the amount 
available for making  the improvements.
In Mr Bs application for the Green Deal he said that his electricity  costs were £80 a month.  
He didnt have  a gas connection so his total energy costs were about £960  a year. 
The credit agreement says that by installing the three measures mentioned he would make a 
saving of £933 a year and thats the figure  that was used for the golden  rule. 
Ref: DRN93004287The way the Green Deal Scheme works is that the annual repayments shouldnt  be more 
than the first years projected savings. Mr B borrowed  £10,670  with repayments of £927.10 a 
year. This was less than the projected  savings  so, on the face of it, the golden rule was 
satisfied. 
But those  figures  dont make sense.  If Mr Bs energy costs were  around £960 a year and he 
was going to save £933 a year he would be paying  less than £30 a year for his energy. In 
effect it would  be free.  It seems unlikely that, even with the benefit  of the measures,  Mr B 
wouldnt incur more  of a cost than this for his annual energy usage.
The Green Deal Provider has a duty to make sure the golden rule is satisfied and clearly  
explained to the consumer.
If Grosvenor had looked at this properly  and explained it clearly  to Mr B, it would have 
become apparent that the expected  savings  were too high and the golden  rule couldnt 
realistically be satisfied  in this case.
As it turned out Mr B didnt get the promised savings. His energy bills went  up considerably 
after the work was done. Ive looked at the bills before and after the installation  to see why 
that might  be. There doesnt appear to be much change in the amount of electricity used or 
the rate charged. So it seems Mr B simply didnt get the estimated savings and the 
increased cost was because of the Green Deal charges.
What work was carried out and what was Mr B charged for?
Theres some confusion  about what work was done. The credit  agreement says the loan was 
to fund three improvements. These were:
Loft insulation  £5,600
External wall insulation £4,400
Cavity wall insulation £9,200.
The Green Deal Installation Agreement also lists these three measures.
However, the Installation  invoice  dated 24 June 2015 lists only:
External wall insulation £13,600
Loft insulation  £5,600
Mr B says cavity wall insulation wasnt installed. In his complaint he said he paid £9,200 for 
something he didnt  get. 
Given that cavity wall insulation isnt shown on the installation invoice it seems possible that 
the work  wasnt done. Instead he seems to have been charged  more for the external wall 
insulation than is shown  on the credit agreement.
There also seems  to be some discrepancy about the amount of loft insulation installed. The 
pre-installation EPC recommends that this is done  to a depth  of 270mm,  presumably  the 
amount Mr B was charged for. But the 2017 EPC recommends that the loft insulation  be 
increased to 270mm. So, its possible that whilst some  insulation was put in this was less 
than the recommended  amount.
Ref: DRN93004288Its difficult to know  what happened at the time. The credit agreement  and installation 
agreement refer to three  measures. So, if they werent installed its easy to see why Mr B 
was confused. The inconsistencies  here are enough to persuade  me its likely things werent 
explained properly  to him. 
How were the improvements  paid for?
Again, its not entirely clear. The installation invoice  shows that the works were paid for by:
Green Deal finance £10,340
Customer contribution £5,010
Home improvement fund £3,850
I think the slight difference in the amount of Green  Deal finance between  this and the credit 
agreement is likely  to be accounted for by fees.  And Mr B agrees that he paid around £5,000 
from his own savings.  He seems to have  received  some sort of government funding  (the 
home improvement fund) to pay for the balance  of the work. 
Mr B says he also paid about  £3,500 for new windows  and that he borrowed some of that 
money from his family. However, theres  no mention  of windows in the sales papers. So, if 
Mr B did pay for new windows it seems to have been outside  the Green Deal arrangement. 
As such I havent considered it further  here. 
Were the measures reasonably priced?
The amounts charged for some of the measures seem high. 
The documents Mr B signed say that he was charged £9,200 for cavity wall insulation. As 
mentioned above  its not clear if that was actually fitted.
The EPC shows that Mr B had a semi-detached bungalow. An impact  assessment 
undertaken by the government in 2018 shows that the typical cost (in 2018) of cavity wall 
insulation for a small semi-detached  house would be around  £550 and for a large semi-
detached house it would be around  £700. The pre-installation EPC (January 2015) says the 
estimated costs for the cavity wall insulation would  be £500 to £1,500. So, if Mr B was 
charged over £9,000  for this Id be concerned that the figure  had been  inflated.
If Mr B didnt have cavity wall insulation then it appears he was charged  £13,600 for external 
wall insulation. Thats  considerably more than shown on the credit agreement  and more than 
the typical costs shown on the governments  2018  impact assessment which  is between  
£8,190 and £8,820  for a semi-detached house. 
The credit agreement and Installation invoice are consistent in showing  that £5,600 was 
charged for loft insulation.  The typical  cost of this type of insulation  is shown on the impact 
assessment as being around £400. And the pre-installation EPC says this would  be around 
£100 to £350. Again, this raises doubts about how the measures were  charged.
Grosvenor has said that Mr Bs house  was in a poor state of repair  and needed a lot of 
preparation work before the measures  could be installed. I havent  seen anything in the 
paperwork supplied to show  this was the case,  or that it was explained to Mr B. And Im not 
Ref: DRN93004289convinced this would account for the large  difference between what  Mr B appears to have 
been charged and what might  typically  have been a reasonable cost.  
If the cost of the measures was inflated  it would mean that Mr B was allowed to borrow more  
than should have been available  to him under the scheme.
That would not be in the spirit of the golden rule and would not be treating Mr B fairly.
Conclusion
In conclusion, Im not satisfied that Grosvenor adequately explained to Mr B that he was 
taking out a loan. Im not persuaded that it properly explained the savings  estimates to him in 
relation to the instalments  to be paid. And I have concerns that the cost of the work was 
inflated or, at least, not properly explained to Mr B.
For these reasons I dont  think  Grosvenor  met its obligations under the Green Deal Code of 
Practice in this case. I dont think it acted fairly  towards Mr B.
I think Mr B lost out as a result of these  shortcomings. I think  if Mr B had realised the 
implications of the arrangement in terms of his energy costs and the nature of the agreement 
he entered into, he would  not have  taken out the loan. 
I now have to consider  what  Grosvenor  should  do to put things right.
Putting things right
Where we uphold  a complaint, our general approach is to aim to put the consumer as nearly 
as possible in the position theyd  be in if things hadnt gone wrong.
In this case, as Ive said, Im satisfied that if things had been properly explained to Mr B he 
wouldnt have taken  out the loan.
 
However, as our investigator  explained,  to put Mr B back in the position he would have been 
if he hadnt taken  out this loan would require Grosvenor to take away whatever insulation 
was installed.  Even  if that were possible its unlikely to be cost effective  for Grosvenor and 
would cause Mr B considerable upheaval.  
Our investigator recommended that the insulation should be left in place, but that Grosvenor 
should unwind the credit  agreement and refund  any instalments  already paid with interest.  
She also recommended that Grosvenor should  pay Mr B £150 for the trouble caused.
I think thats fair in the circumstances. As Ive said, I think if things had been properly 
explained to Mr B he wouldnt have taken out the loan.
I recognise that Mr B may get some benefits  as a result of the improvements. But, against 
that, he paid nearly  £9,000 for the improvements from other (non-loan) sources. And, given 
my finding  of potentially  inflated cost, I think this adequately allows for any potential benefit 
he may receive from the improvements.
Grosvenor has told us that it sold the debt to the GDFC in or around 2015. That company 
has explained to us that once a Green Deal has been entered into, and the improvements 
made, GDFC Assets purchases  the rights (but not the obligations) under the credit 
Ref: DRN930042810agreement. This allows GDFC to collect payments due under the credit agreement  through  
the electricity suppliers billing system.  But the original Green Deal provider is, and remains,  
the lender under the credit agreement. It remains responsible for any mis-sale  and for any 
redress payable.
That means that Grosvenor will have to contact the GDFC and take whatever steps are 
needed to put into effect  this decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Grosvenor Credit Management & Investigations Ltd should take 
whatever steps  are necessary  to:
1.Cancel the credit agreement with any outstanding  loan balance  written off. 
2.Refund any instalments Mr B has already  paid with 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
3.Arrange to cancel  any outstanding Green Deal payments due to the energy provider 
4.Remove any reference to the Green  Deal loan from the relevant  credit reference 
agencies and cancel  any adverse entry made in Mr Bs credit  file as a result of non-
payment of Green Deal charges.  
5.Pay Mr B £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9300428