K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible  manner. 
background
Mr M took out eight  instalment loans with Uncle Buck between  April 2016 and August 2018. 
The loans ranged from £100 to £900.  Loans one to six were repayable in three, monthly 
repayments. Loans seven and eight  were repayable over six, monthly repayments. Mr M 
repaid all the loans.  A summary of Mr Ms lending with Uncle  Buck is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
126 April 2016 100 29 July 2016
227 August 2016 100 30 November 2016
312 December 2016 300 28 February 2017
46 May 2017 250 31 July 2017
57 August 2017 350 31 October 2017
619 November 2017 600 31 January 2018
718 February 2018 900 31 July 2018
85 August 2018 900 25 October 2018
Mr M says he couldnt afford  to repay  the loans, as he was heavily indebted at the time. He 
says that he repaid the loans by borrowing  again. Mr M wants a refund of interest  and 
charges, plus interest and information  about  the loans removed from his credit record. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ms complaint.  He said that Uncle Buck shouldnt have 
given Mr M any of the loans. That was because Uncle Bucks searches before loan one 
showed that Mr M was having problems managing his money. So, Uncle Buck  shouldve  
seen that Mr M couldnt repay further borrowing in a sustainable way. The adjudicator set out 
what Uncle Buck should do to put matters right. 
Mr M agreed  with the adjudicator. Uncle Buck didnt agree  and responded at some length. I 
said, in summary:
Removing  information  from Mr Ms credit report would be detrimental to him and 
others.
It didnt say that Mr M had three short-term loans in its final response letter. 
The credit  checks it did showed Mr M had two short-term loans at the time he applied 
for loan one. 
Mr M understated his income at the time his applications.
Mr M could afford to repay the loans.
Mr M has continued to borrow from other  short-term lenders after he complained  to it.
There were  gaps  between some of the loans. 
Ref: DRN90935582It refused  Mr M one loan and didnt lend him all hed asked to borrow for loan seven.  
It carried out credit and affordability  checks before each loan.
Repeat borrowing  doesnt automatically mean the loans are unaffordable.
It offered  to refund interest and charges on loan eight. 
Mr M didnt  accept Uncle Bucks offer. Uncle Buck offered to refund interest and charges on 
loans four, six and eight.  Mr M didnt accept that offer. 
The adjudicator amended  his assessment slightly. He still maintained the view that 
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr M loans one to eight but he thought that the pattern of 
lending suggested  that Mr M had become  persistently  reliant on short-term loans from loan 
six. So, he thought  that Uncle Buck should remove adverse  information  from Mr Ms credit 
file in relation  to loans one to five and remove all information from his credit file in relation to 
loans six to eight.  
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  amended  assessment. In said,  in summary:
Just because an applicant has other short-term loans doesnt meant that further 
lending was unsustainable. 
It operates in the alternative credit  market and doesnt expect applicants  to have 
perfect credit histories. 
Its credit check before loan one showed  that Mr M had two active short-term  loan 
accounts, no judgements  or delinquencies and one default. It showed his loan 
balance as £12,043. So, there  wasnt evidence  that Mr M was having  problems  
managing his money. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN90935583But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I note that Uncle Buck  says that there were gaps  between the loans. Ive looked at the dates 
of the loans and the dates Mr M repaid them. I dont think that the breaks between  Mr M 
repaying a loan and taking out another one were  such that they amounted  to breaks  in the 
chain of lending  such that Uncle Buck was permitted to treat Mr M as a new customer. So, 
Im looking  at one chain of lending here. 
I think that the information Uncle  Buck gathered before loan one indicated that Mr M might  
have been having trouble managing his money. In Uncle Bucks letter to Mr M dated 
10 December 2018, it refers to him having three existing short-term  loans at this point. 
Ive also looked  at the credit checks Uncle Buck carried out. I dont accept what  Uncle  Buck 
says about them. The information about  individual accounts shown on the credit check 
Uncle Buck  carried out before loan one, shows that Mr M had outstanding balances on 
numerous short-term  loans. For example, Mr M still owed £200 on an unsecured loan of 
£300 hed taken out on 13 February  2016 and which was repayable  over six months. There  
are several other similar instances of outstanding  balances on short-term  loans at the time of 
loan one.  
Ref: DRN90935584Whatever the precise number of short-term loans  Mr M had at that point, I think  that in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  from loan one, proportionate checks are likely to have  
established a much fuller  picture of Mr Ms financial position. Thats  because  of the 
indications of the extent of Mr Ms existing short-term borrowing.  I think  proportionate checks 
before loan one wouldve meant that Uncle Buck took steps to verify the information Mr M 
provided about his financial situation.
If Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate  checks before loan one I think it would likely 
have seen, as I have, that Mr M had a significant  number  of short-term loans that he hadnt  
yet repaid. In February 2016, Mr M took out seven short-term loans and in March 2016,  he 
took out three short-term loans. Based on what Ive seen, he hadnt  yet repaid those loans. 
So, I think that proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mr M couldnt repay further  
borrowing in a sustainable way. I dont think that Uncle Buck  should have given Mr M loan 
one or the subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr M with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
six. I say this because  from loan six onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan within 
weeks of settling a previous  one. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more  likely 
than not Mr M was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  eight  was 
taken out over two years  and three months after Mr Ms first and it was for a considerably  
larger amount. Mr M had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Uncle Buck  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Uncle Buck  continued to provide borrowing  from loan six 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. And the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative  implications  on Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  all of the loans Uncle  Buck gave to Mr M and it should 
put things right.
Ref: DRN90935585putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  one to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one to five from Mr Ms credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  six to eight should be removed  from 
Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP  
should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9093558