K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that Dudley Building  Society  mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs B or Dudley Building  Society sent me anything  further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2004. Mr 
and Mrs B say Dudley Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. The policy only covered Mr B. Ill refer 
to the business as Dudley in my decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN94142642Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive currently decided  that the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Based on copies of paperwork from the sale, I think that the PPI was presented as optional 
and Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out. In particular,  on the mortgage application  there were  a 
number of options  for PPI, including  the option  to not take PPI out. A tick has been placed  
next to the option to request more details  about the PPI and Mr B has signed separately 
beneath this. Ive also seen  a copy of a separate PPI application form thats been completed 
and signed by Mr B.
I think  that the PPI was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think that Dudley recommended the PPI to    Mr B so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have  to make sure     Mr B got the 
information he needed  to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information Dudley gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. 
This policy excluded existing medical  conditions. It seems that Mr B had an existing  medical 
condition at the time of sale. I dont know how clearly the information about the existing 
medical condition exclusion  was presented to Mr B. But on balance         I  dont think that 
more or better information  about  this exclusion would have changed  Mr Bs decision about 
taking the PPI. I say this because based on what Mr B has told us about his condition and the 
impact on his life, I think that hed have thought that the chances of him needing  to claim for it 
were relatively low. I also think that          Mr B would most likely  have still wanted to be 
covered for all of the other reasons that might mean he was unwell and unable to work  
potentially for a lot longer.
Ive also considered Mr Bs employment  circumstances at the time of sale - he was self 
employed. But when Ive considered the nearest relevant  policy document I dont think  that it 
would have been very difficult for Mr B to make an unemployment claim  on the policy.
Based on what Ive seen of his wider circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said so far, but I dont currently think  that this PPI 
policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether Dudley treated 
them unfairly.  
Dudley has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what  they paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how Dudley  has been working  this out and based on what  weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think Dudley 
treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission 
they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN94142643my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  
 
If either Mr and Mrs B or Dudley Building  Society have anything  further to add, they should do so by 
27 April 2019, Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9414264