K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on her credit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website).  
Background
In July 2020 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. TSB has said it has nothing further  to add. Ms M has made some 
observations which  I shall address.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms M has said I do not think it is fair to assume  that purchasers will understand that tickets
may be name specific, which I didn't. I appreciate Ms Ms view but can only repeat  what  I 
said on this point in my provisional  decision. Namely that the website does make clear it is a 
ticket reselling website.  And just because it may not have told her what  was said on the 
ticket this doesnt necessarily equate to a breach  or a misrepresentation of contract. So it 
would be unfair  to hold TSB responsible for this.
Ms M also points to having  been a loyal customer of TSB for some time,  which  I do not 
doubt. But that doesnt make its decision here unfair. 
Lastly Ms M has pointed to taking her dispute with the Website to other bodies for a 
resolution. Clearly this is her right and she has the option  of not accepting this decision and 
thus avoiding  being bound by it.
I do not think Ms M has made any persuasive  comments on my provisional decision and 
having considered the matter again  in the round, I see no persuasive  reason to change  my 
position. 
Consequently, I do not uphold this complaint  for the reasons above  and as I described in my 
provisional decision as set out below  (attached).
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I do not 
uphold this complaint about TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN90588862Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund a payment made  on her credit card to a secondary 
ticket selling  website  (the Website). 
background
In November 2018 Ms M purchased a ticket  through the Website to attend an event using her TSB 
credit card. She became  concerned that she wouldnt be able to attend the event because  the ticket 
had someone  elses name on it. She says she called  the event managers  and was told it wasnt 
transferable. As she lives a significant distance from the event she wasnt willing to spend significant 
time and expense  on going  to the event  only to be turned  away. So she wants the transaction cost to 
be refunded. She says she contacted the Website to sort the matter out but was unsuccessful.
Ms M asked TSB to help. TSB looked  into the matter,  but it didnt think it could do any more  than it 
did. This was because it didnt  think it could take the chargeback process further because  it didnt 
have a reasonable prospect  of success. It also thought a Section 75 claim would also be 
unsuccessful. 
Ms M didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Ms M explained that she 
wasnt sold valid tickets  and there  was no reason to believe shed get into the event. She felt the 
Website misrepresented the ticket to her.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, he thought TSB had acted  fairly by declining Ms Ms 
request for a refund.  Ms M didnt agree. She said she should have got her money  back  when she 
complained. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I am writing this provisional decision because there  is some evidence which hasnt been properly 
considered. So I should make the parties aware  of my position and thus give them both a fair 
opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. I should also state that I am 
making my decision  for differing reasons  to those of the investigator.
This complaint is about  TSB,  as Ms Ms credit card account provider. Its not about the Website, which  
isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only considering whether Ms M 
authorised TSB to charge her account  with the value of the payment,  and whether it should  have 
helped with the dispute with the Website in any other way.
Ms M accepts she authorised this transaction for these tickets through  the website. Having  
considered what Ms M has said (including that she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and 
the evidence of TSB Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised and correctly applied to Ms 
Ms account  with TSB. 
could TSB challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances,  when a cardholder  has a dispute regarding a transaction, as Ms M does 
here, TSB (as the card issuer) can attempt  a chargeback. Generally we say its fair for a card issuer  to 
attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres  a reasonable prospect of success, for 
example where goods arent received, or it appears that the payment wasnt properly authorised by 
Ref: DRN90588863the cardholder. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme and consumers do not have a right to 
a chargeback.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where chargeback has been 
successful. But I dont think TSB couldve challenged  the payment on the basis 
Ms M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion Ive already set out.
As far as Ms M is concerned the crux of the complaint is that she wasnt sold valid tickets and thus 
should be refunded the amount she paid. She says they were misrepresented to her, that there was 
no proof theyd be accepted to let her gain entrance to the event, and it is unfair to expect her to travel 
a long way with significant other costs on the off chance  she might get in. She also points to the terms 
and conditions of the ticket. However  it is important to note here, as I said earlier,  that in this case I 
can only consider what TSB did or didnt  do and its obligations in this case.
TSB raised  a chargeback  and whilst  it did so, it credited  the transaction amount to Ms Ms account.  
The website disagreed with the chargeback  and provided its reasons for doing so to TSB. It 
essentially said that it provided the service the customer (Ms M) paid for. It also explained  its a ticket 
resale platform, it provides clear messaging  around what its charges  are, all sales are final and that 
the ticket was a valid ticket.
TSB says it considered this and felt that there was nothing to be gained by pursuing the chargeback 
any further because it felt it didnt have a realistic  prospect of success  considering the websites  
position on the matter and what had happened.  
If it had continued the process  this would  have  involved going back to the website and ultimately 
going to the scheme provider  (not TSB) for a decision on the matter. So the situation  is that if it had 
taken the issue as far as it could the ultimate decision  would be outside of its control. 
The website showed  it was a ticket reselling  website  and Ms M had purchased a ticket to an event  
through it and that there was nothing persuasive to show anything had gone wrong in the transaction. 
As TSB has said, if Ms M had shown shed  been refused entry then it could have taken the matter 
forward. But Ms M didnt attempt to attend the event so couldnt  show this. 
Bearing in mind  the websites stance in refusing the chargeback and what  TSB knew, I think TSBs  
position of deciding not to take the chargeback  process further is fair.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Ms Ms TSBs credit card. Under section 75, in certain 
circumstances, she has an equal right to claim  against TSB as she does against the service supplier 
(the Website)  if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The 
Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing  Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members  who want to buy 
tickets ("Buyers") to find members  who want to sell tickets  ("Sellers"). [Websites name] does not take 
title to the underlying ticket  and the actual  transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied  by the Website. But that the Website  does provide a 
service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out process  and 
covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform,  guaranteeing tickets and providing 
customer service. 
Ref: DRN90588864So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  between Ms M, TSB and the Website, 
albeit not for the direct  provision of the tickets  themselves. This is an important point to note.  Instead, 
the Website  provides  a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the 
guarantee. So I think  the Website is responsible  for how ticket information (such as venue,  date, time,  
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee,  its 
responsible for providing  replacement  tickets or a refund if the seller (the person who originally bought 
the ticket and is now selling it) doesnt fulfil their obligations around supplying  the tickets.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service  provided by the 
Website must have a cash price of more than £100. For one ticket £184.47 was paid on Ms Ms card. 
Contrary to what Ms M has been told in the past we do actually have a breakdown of what  that 
amount was made up of from the website- £131.96 pence was paid to the seller of the ticket. The 
website charged booking (£38.80) and handling fees (£5.95) and the remainder was tax. So the 
website charged less than £100 for its services. So I do not think this case meets the required 
financial limits  to have a claim under Section  75. As such I do not have to consider whether there is a 
breach or a misrepresentation  here as Section  75 does  cover Ms M for this particular transaction. 
For the sake of completeness I should describe  my position  if this case had met the financial limits. 
For a successful claim Ms M would  need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the 
Website. Ms M has repeatedly argued that by getting a ticket with someone elses name on (with an 
obviously male first name) it wasnt a valid ticket.
But for the similar reasons  as described earlier  Im not persuaded  that there was breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website. The Website has said that its a ticket reselling website. It has 
provided a service (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded it has breached  the contract  in 
providing that service  which it provides. Nor has it misrepresented that service  to Ms M to my mind. 
It seems to me that it is possible  that Ms M is merging  the responsibilities of the ticket seller and the 
Website. But the situation is that they are distinct sets of actions  and responsibilities.  And I can only 
uphold this complaint against TSB here if it fails in some way or that I am persuaded that the website 
has breached or misrepresented the service it provides. But Ms M got the ticket  she wanted for the 
event she wanted and evidently was willing to pay the amount she paid.
And ultimately it was Ms Ms choice to not attend the event. And although  most tickets (including this 
one) state they are not transferable the website  makes clear that it is a ticket reselling website. So Ms 
M was on notice she was buying a ticket  through a ticket reselling website when she bought this 
ticket. So Im not persuaded the website  and hence  TSB has done anything  wrong here.
Ms M has made a number of arguments. I shall deal with the key ones as I see them from here.
She says the website did not tell me that the ticket was name  specific before they took my
payment for it. But it does  make clear it is a ticket reselling website. And just because  it may not have 
told what was said on the ticket this doesnt necessarily  equate to a breach or a misrepresentation of 
contract. And for the reasons given Im not persuaded there was a breach  or misrepresentation by the 
website about the service it provided. So it would be unfair  to hold TSB responsible for this.
Ms M argues that as there  was a mans name on the ticket, and she is a woman  it would be 
abundantly clear she wasnt  the original purchaser of the ticket on trying  to gain entry to the event. I 
appreciate this. But she knew she was purchasing  a ticket  from a ticket reselling website. And Im not 
persuaded there is a breach or misrepresentation here about the service  that the website provided-so  
I dont think I can uphold this complaint against  TSB because  of this.
Ms M has pointed to various bits of evidence  regarding  whether or not the event would have accepted 
her ticket or not. But for me to uphold this complaint against TSB I have to be persuaded that the 
website has breached its contract or misrepresented to Ms M the service it provides. TSB isnt 
responsible for things outside of the service the website  said it would provide.
Ref: DRN90588865Ms M points to chargebacks that have  been  successful.  This maybe  the case. However TSB is 
responsible for its actions and this decision  is only about  this particular  transaction. And TSB did raise  
a chargeback here. Just because the website may have not refuted other chargebacks doesnt  mean 
TSB did something wrong here.  And there are many  potential reasons for when  refunds are given 
such as goodwill or commercial pragmatism. But just because  refunds have been given elsewhere 
doesnt mean  TSB did something wrong here.
Ms M argues it was unfair  to expect her to incur the time and expense  to travel to the event  
considering the situation.  But Ms M knew where  the event was and where she lived when she bought 
the ticket. And the website  made clear it was a ticket reselling website  at the time.  So Ms M was on 
notice of all of this when she bought the ticket. So Im not persuaded I should uphold this complaint 
against TSB for this.
Lastly I should  add that the investigator  makes a finding regarding a £25 award in his view. This was 
clearly erroneous as no such award  was made.
In summary I currently think  that TSB acted fairly  in raising the chargeback  and in its decision not to 
take the matter forward. I also currently think that the requirements for a Section 75 claim  have not 
been met due to the financial limits not being met. And even if it had been met I do not currently think  
such a claim should be successful. I say this because I currently think there was no breach or 
misrepresentation of the contract  by the website. So I dont think  I can fairly require TSB to refund Ms 
M.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to not uphold  the complaint  against TSB Bank 
Plc.
I now invite  both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within  the timeline described  
above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9058886