K820x#14Complaint
Mr H, represented by a solicitor, complains that the vehicle he acquired under  a finance 
agreement with FCE Bank Plc was mis-sold. He says he was mis-lead  as to the type of 
agreement he was entering into.
Background
Mr H entered into a finance agreement with FCE Bank in 2016 to acquire a car. His solicitor  
says that the agreement  was titled Hire Purchase  Agreement (HPA) but it was actually a 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP). He says the non disclosure  of this information resulted  
in an unfair  relationship under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. He also says 
that Mr H wasnt provided with other options  for finance and that had the full details of the 
PCP been disclosed  (including the commission amount) he wouldnt have agreed to this. 
The solicitor  says that the cost to Mr H of the PCP was higher than would have been the 
case had a true HPA been set up.
FCE Bank says that all its contracts  state  that the customer  agrees with its HPA terms from 
the date they sign the agreement. This enables the credit to be advanced and the ownership 
of the goods subject to the HPA to remain with FCE Bank. It says that under the HPA the 
hirer pays to hire the goods  over time by paying  instalments and there is then an option to 
buy the goods at the end, subject to certain  conditions. 
FCE Bank says that when  Mr H visited the dealer they would have discussed Mr Hs 
requirements and the finance options  available. It says Mr H had the opportunity to review  
the details of his agreement  before signing. 
FCE Bank has listed three types of agreement that would  have  been  discussed. It says that 
Mr H would have only been able to enter into an interest free alternative  agreement if he had 
provided a 50% deposit. If this wasnt possible then an interest rate would have been 
charged that would  have  been higher than the charge on his actual agreement.  It also says 
that Mr Hs monthly payments would have been higher due to the restriction on the length of 
the other possible agreement. FCE Bank  also noted  that Mr H received a deposit  allowance  
towards the car which  may not have been available with a different finance  agreement.
FCE Banks says Mr H made 18 instalment payments before part exchanging his car. It says 
given the circumstances of Mr Hs case he would have paid more  under a different 
agreement. It also confirmed that no commission was paid in relation  to Mr Hs agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He explained that PCPs meet the legal 
definition of a HPA but have lower monthly payments and a larger  balloon payment  at the 
end. He said that having reviewed the information,  Mr H was in a better position under the 
agreement he had than had he taken out the alternative HPA. 
Our investigator didnt  find that he had been provided with enough evidence to say that a 
misrepresentation had occurred.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. His solicitor said that FCE Bank hadnt provided 
evidence to show that it had complied with its obligations as set out in the Consumer  Credit  
Sourcebook. He reiterated that appropriate advice wasnt  provided  and there wasnt full 
disclosure for the workings of the PCP. 
Ref: DRN92505202My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to assess each case based on 
its merits. I take relevant  regulations and legislation  into account but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable  given the unique  circumstance of the case.  
Mr H entered into a finance agreement to acquire a car. The top of the agreement sets out 
that it is a HPA regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It has been  explained  that the 
agreement does fall within the definition of a HPA and so I find it reasonable that this 
information is included.
Mr H complains that he wasnt  provided  with different options when he went to acquire  a car. 
I cannot say what  was discussed at the time. However it was more  than three years after 
Mr H entered into this agreement that he raised  his complaint. This was also almost two 
years after he had part exchanged his car. I think it reasonable to accept that Mr H would 
have raised his complaint sooner had he believed at the time he hadnt been given enough 
options about the financing of his acquisition.
FCE Bank has explained the options that would have  been available to Mr H at the time. I 
note Mr Hs solicitors  concerns that we have relied  on information provided  by FCE Bank 
but it is reasonable that we take all evidence provided into account. FCE Bank has explained 
that if Mr H had been able to pay a 50% deposit  he could have received zero percent 
interest on an alternative finance agreement.  However I have  nothing  to suggest hat Mr H 
was able or willing to do this. In the event  a 50% deposit wasnt paid the information 
provided suggests that Mr H received the best finance option given the time he had the car. 
Therefore, while  I accept on balance it was more  likely than not the at the options were 
provided to Mr H when he was discussing acquiring  the car, even if this wasnt  the case,  as 
he doesnt seem to have  been disadvantaged  by the agreement  he had I do not find that I 
can uphold this part of his complaint.
The finance  agreement set out all of the key terms and Mr H signed  this. Based on what I 
have seen he did have  the information  available to him to make an informed decision. Had 
he felt this wasnt the case I would have expected him to have raised his complaint sooner.
There has also been a question regarding commission.  However  in this case it has been 
confirmed that no commission  was paid.
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence to say that a misrepresentation has 
occurred. I think it reasonable to accept that Mr H was provided  with the information he 
needed to make a decision and I have  nothing to suggest he was disadvantaged  by the 
finance agreement  he received. Given this I do not find that I can uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN92505203My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9250520