K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that ReAssure Limited  (ReAssure) hasnt provided her with 
statements for many years. Because of this Mrs A says she was not aware of where her 
pension was invested and what her options were in switching funds and fund availability.
background
In May 1991, Mrs A received advice from Barclays to transfer her occupational pension into 
a Barclays Life personal pension and to open  an additional personal pension  for her to make  
regular contributions.
In 2011 Mrs As pension  policies  with Barclays Life were  transferred to ReAssure after it 
acquired Barclays Life. From that point ReAssure took on the liability  for both policies.
In 2018 Mrs A raised a complaint with ReAssure because she said she wasnt  regularly 
receiving her annual statements. She was also unhappy that ReAssure did not inform her of 
her ability to switch her pension funds.  Mrs A believed this disadvantaged  her as its now too 
late to act on improving  her pension performance. 
ReAssure did not uphold Mrs As complaint. It said that her annual statements had been  
sent to her current address since 2011. And the statements referred Mrs A to its website for 
information on available funds for switching.  ReAssure pointed out that Mrs A wouldve been 
provided with the terms and conditions when taking out the policy  which detailed information  
about switching  funds within the policy.
Mrs A was unhappy with ReAssures response, so she brought  her complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at Mrs As complaint.  The investigator believed  that ReAssure fulfilled 
their obligations  in sending out the annual statements. And didnt  think any missing  
statements wouldve impacted Mrs A. The investigator also agreed  with ReAssure, that Mrs 
A was provided with the information about  switching funds at the point of sale and in the 
statements.
Mrs A did not accept the outcome of the investigators view. Mrs A said the investigator 
shouldnt accept ReAssures word for sending out the statements, as some of the 
statements were addressed to her previous  financial advisor. Mrs A also disagreed  with the 
investigators view that she wasnt impacted by the missing statements and challenged the 
opinion that she wouldnt have done anything different.  Mrs A asked for the complaint to be 
referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of Mrs As submission to this service, she provided the extract  below showing a 
performance overview of her pension fund and statements that shes missing. Mrs A says 
she missed eight annual  statements  between 1998  2018.  ReAssure  has also provided  
some statements as part of their evidence to show that statements were sent to Mrs As 
current address.
After looking at the extract below, the majority  of statements sent to Mrs A did reach  her. 
The evidence without  doubt shows that ReAssure did send statements to Mrs As correct 
address for many of the years,  as she received them. I think  it highly likely based  on the 
Ref: DRN95704332evidence, that the statements were also sent for the missing years.  As to why Mrs A has no 
record of receiving them, I could  only speculate.
 
Mrs A has said that had she received the missing  statements she wouldve taken action to 
try to optimise investment growth.  Though I appreciate Mrs As disappointed  with the 
performance of her pension fund,  I dont think the missing statements wouldve prevented  
her from taking action. I say this because  its clear from the extract  above derived from the 
statements Mrs A did receive, she had enough  information to know  how well her pension  
was performing. So, I think its reasonable to say that if Mrs A was concerned, she wouldve 
taken action sooner   with or without  the missing statements.
Mrs A raises  the point  that her lack of action would also have been caused by penalties she 
wouldve receive by switching to another provider. And Mrs A says she also wasnt  informed 
about the possibilities of switching funds  with ReAssure.
I think its important to point out that ReAssure as Mrs As pension  provider  are not expected  
to advise Mrs A on her pension. However, I would expect that Mrs A is provided  with the 
information she needs to make  informed choices and the information shes provided is 
accurate.
ReAssure said the statements  it sent Mrs A made  it clear how well her pension funds were 
performing. And the statements directed Mrs A to where she could get further  information  
about her pension. Below is an extract  taken  from the annual  statements sent to Mrs A;
Having reviewed samples of statements that were sent to Mrs A Im satisfied the information  
provided was clear to understand  and it wouldve provided Mrs A with the information  she 
needed in regards to the performance of her pension. The statements also made  it clear  that 
Mrs A could get further information on the funds available to her if she wished. This is further 
evidenced by Mrs A spreadsheet (first extract) where she gives  an overview of her pension 
performance over the years  using the information shes obtained from the statements 
shes received. 
Im satisfied that ReAssure have  kept Mrs A updated  with annual statements and provided 
her with information on where to go to find out about funds available to her. I appreciate Mrs 
A is frustrated by the missing statements, but I think its likely that these were sent. And I 
think its reasonable to say that if Mrs A was concerned about not receiving the missing  
statements she wouldve  contacted  ReAssure then.
I can also appreciate Mrs As frustration with the performance of her pension  but I cant hold 
Reassure responsible for this. Poor  performance in itself is not a reason to say a business 
has done something wrong.  Funds  values are not guaranteed as they can go down as well 
as up. And Im not aware of any mismanagement or negligence  in the way in which  
Reassure manages  its funds.
In conclusion, Mrs A did receive enough  information to make  an informed decision on what  
to do about her pension and I dont think Reassure has made  an error. That said, I do 
sympathise with Mrs As situation, I understand her pension benefits will be much lower than 
she expected  but I think  ReAssure have  met their obligations in providing Mrs A with the 
information required. 
Ref: DRN95704333my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9570433