K820x#14complaint
To try and keep things  understandable, Im going  to refer mainly  to the complainants in this 
case as Mr B1 and Mr B2. Thats because this complaint has been brought on behalf  of a 
son and the estate of his late father,  who both have the same  names.  
However, where possible, rather than to keep adding phrases like and the estate  of Mr B2  
or  the late Mr B2 Ill stick with mentioning only Mr B1 as much as possible,  for simplicity. 
Mr B1 says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy in 
1990 whilst  he was taking  out a joint-mortgage with his late father. 
Bank of Scotland is responsible for the sale. But it was trading  under the brand name of 
Halifax Building Society at the time. So again,  to keep things simple, Ill refer mainly  simply 
to BoS. 
background and summary to complaint
These events were a long time ago and so we appear to have some, but not all, the sale 
documentation Id hope to see. This isnt unusual, or indeed  unreasonable, as businesses 
dont need to keep records indefinitely. Consequently, Ive had to make certain reasonable 
assumptions based on my experience of these  types of complaints. Ive also carefully  looked  
over all the documents we still do have access to.
Although this case involves a joint-mortgage,  it seems the PPI was bought only in respect  of 
Mr B1; his father wasnt ever covered. This evidently  differs  from Mr B1s recollections as he 
made some points of complaint about  his father not being eligible for the cover.  However, 
everything Ive seen, including the cost of the policy, points strongly  to there  being  only one 
person covered by the policy  Mr B1.
The sale of the PPI took place at the same time as taking out the joint-mortgage, in a 
branch. The policy provided cover  for Mr B1 for accident, sickness, and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £150 a month  towards the 
mortgage balance  (and certain other  costs  such as household insurance premiums)  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £6 a month. It seems Mr B1 made a claim for 
unemployment under  the policy in the late 90s, but we have few details left about this.
At the time,  Mr B1 was employed as a technician and he said he was entitled to between  6 
and 12 months sick-pay with his job. He also said he enjoyed death-in-service-benefit with 
his job, although  the amount wasnt specified.  He said he and his father had savings  
available, again  unspecified. When asked about existing medical conditions, Mr B1 said he 
experienced a tonsillectomy in the 1950s.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2006. Mr B1s 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr B1s 
representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B1 wouldnt 
Ref: DRN95112352have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr B1s 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
the complainants about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B1 and the impact 
they would  have had on the chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as providing 
peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations  on the scope  of the 
cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B1 disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like this one. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B1s complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN95112353There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr B1s case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr B1s complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr B1 with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN95112354-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B1, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B1 suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B1 and BoS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B1 know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. I think its reasonable for me to 
conclude the policy and its features were probably discussed between  the parties  because  
only Mr B1 took it out. Mr B2s age made him ineligible. I also note that on their mortgage  
application, the joint-applicants were asked about this type of cover. The form said, if you 
wish to join the scheme, enter the amount of monthly benefit you require £150 was 
entered and both applicants signed the application  form. Additionally, there was a separate  
form specifically for the PPI application which Mr B1 signed. So, taking everything  into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mr B1 knew the policy was optional  and he agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mr B1 agree that advice  was provided during this sale. This means BoS had 
to advise with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate or 
suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know fully what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation. It seems Mr B1 cant remember clearly what  happened  and there  is only a 
limited record  of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr B1s 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  he would  have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether he had any pre-existing medical conditions,  
although I note certain  medical exclusions were listed on the application form.
Overall however, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B1 given his circumstances.  So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B1, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B1met  the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B1 had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr B1s ability  to continue to 
meet his mortgage  repayments would have been  put under strain  if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits and 
savings he says he had access to.
Ref: DRN95112355-Mr B1 had a need for the policy  he was the main wage earner and it seems likely  
Mr B1s finances would be put under strain if he were not working  even allowing for 
the sickness and redundancy benefits  he was entitled to and Mr B2s income.  The 
policy would have  helped  Mr B1 manage the consequences were  he unable to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B1. There was 
nothing about  Mr B1s employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding the tonsillectomy Mr B1 told us about,  this doesnt appear  
to be caught by the policy limitations  or exclusions as it pre-dates the sale by some 
considerable time.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr B1s circumstances.
-While  there were  probably limits  to the cover  provided by the policy (including the 
requirement that Mr B1 be disabled or unemployed  for 90 days before  he could make 
a claim), the policy  still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr B1s circumstances, including his employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
90-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his and Mr 
B2s home and the potential consequences  should Mr B1 be unable  to make 
the repayments on loans secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr B1 sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B1 was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because Ive seen evidence of it on the PPI application form 
he signed.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B1 Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr B1 all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr B1s representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr B1s. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN95112356-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr B1s representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B1 about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr B1s representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B1 has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr B1? To what extent did Mr B1 suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B1. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B1 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr B1 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B1, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mr B1 has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if BoS had explained 
things properly, Mr B1 would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr B1 says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B1 had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr B1s circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. As Ive 
also already explained, the information  Mr B1 was given about the PPI costs  and benefit  
Ref: DRN95112357were clear  enough. But the information about  other aspects of the policy,  such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
I think its unlikely Mr B1s expectations about  what the policy  would pay in the event of a 
claim (an amount sufficient  to meet his mortgage payment) was significantly different to what  
the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more 
in the event of a claim than he would have expected as there was an additional cash 
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B1 thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  or mental health conditions that he 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B1 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B1 pause  for thought   and may well have  caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B1 from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr B1s circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr B1 didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions (as defined in the terms) and was in permanent  employment. So, 
I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B1 would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B1 would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if he was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B1 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr B1s representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN95112358That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B1 would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr B1s 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B1 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B1 believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing 
from the guidance for firms set out at DISP  App 3 (which  I dont  consider  I am), I am only 
doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would  represent  fair compensation to 
put Mr B1 in the position he would  have been in if he had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr B1 compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B1 thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr B1, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1990 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr B1s representative says a court  might take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr B1 and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B1 in a better position than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN95112359Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B1 and the 
estate of the late Mr B2 to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9511235