K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has been  unable to send him verification codes to 
his telephone.
background
Mr R says he was told that the verification system HSBC  uses had changed and as a result  
says he no longer received verification codes that should have  been  sent to his telephone. 
He says that meant he was forced  to contact HSBC to authorise a transaction  and as he 
lives abroad that meant expensive call costs.  Mr R would like HSBC  to sort out the problem 
as he says to call HSBC  for each  transaction is unreasonable.
HSBC says it cant say where  the fault lies and so doesnt accept making a mistake.  It says 
Mr R will have to contact it if he doesnt  receive the verification information.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  didnt 
think it possible to say where the fault was and that HSBC was entitled to decide which 
security systems it used. The investigator thought  HSBC had provided a reasonable 
alternative to the problem  by suggesting  Mr R contact it for authorisation of a transaction.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and says HSBC should correct its software problem. He says 
it takes 30 minutes to contact HSBC and authorise  a transaction. Mr H told us in September 
2019 that he is now receiving the verification information and says that shows the problem 
was with HSBC.  He would like to know what changes have been  made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator.
I dont think it possible to say on balance why Mr R didnt receive the verification  information 
needed to complete transactions.  As Mr R knows HSBC isnt responsible  for the verification 
system as that is run by a different business  and the verification information  is sent by a 
mobile telephone provider. So I think in those circumstances its impossible to fairly conclude  
that HSBC was responsible for what has happened  as there are other businesses involved 
in this process.
I can see that Mr R has told us that he is now receiving the required information and that 
shows that HSBC  was at fault for the initial problems. I dont think  that is the case and think it 
simply shows that the system is working and that changes could have been made by any of 
businesses involved.
I appreciate Mr R would  like to know what changes HSBC has made. But Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr R but Im satisfied that information is commercially sensitive and not 
information that I can require it to provide to Mr R even if it had made  changes  to its 
systems. I also make clear to Mr R that we are not the regulator  of banks and building  
societies and so its not our role to carry out such investigations in any event.
Im satisfied that HSBC  fairly gave Mr R a reasonable alternative in the event he could  not 
receive the verification information. I appreciate that Mr R may have had to pay international 
call costs but in any event it appears the problem has now been resolved.
Ref: DRN93383142my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9338314