K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains she wasnt  made  aware of the increasing cost of the life assurance  provided 
with her ReAssure Limited  pension.  She says this meant money was taken from her pension  
fund to pay for the life assurance.
background
Ms J took a personal  pension with ReAssure in 1990. She made monthly contributions  to 
this. Her policy included life assurance of £30,000 which was paid for from part of her 
monthly contributions. Ms J increased  the level of life assurance  to £80,000 in 1993. The 
cost of the life assurance increased  as Ms J got older to the point that by 2011, the cost of 
the life assurance  was greater than Ms Js monthly contribution. This meant  the pension  
fund Ms J had built up was used to cover the shortfall and her pension  fund was reduced 
each month. By 2018 the life assurance  was costing £53.58  per month.  Ms J was paying  just 
over £20 per month.
Ms J says she recently found  out about  this and complained. ReAssure didnt agree it had 
done anything  wrong. It said it had provided the information it was required to do by the 
industry regulators. And it said Ms J wouldve seen the value of her pension  fund decreasing  
each year. It gave Ms J the option to cancel the life assurance she had. It also paid Ms J £75 
for incorrect information she was given when  she first complained about the life assurance.
Unhappy with this response,  Ms J referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into things  and thought Ms Js complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the cost 
of the life assurance had been made clear enough  in the annual pension  statements. She 
thought Ms J would  likely have cancelled the life assurance part of the pension had this been  
made clearer. She suggested  ReAssure refund the cost of life assurance  from when it first 
exceeded 50% of Ms Js monthly contributions. 
Ms J agreed with this, but ReAssure didnt. It said the information it supplied within its annual 
statements was set out by the regulators and it had complied  with this. It said it was now 
required to provide more information about  the life assurance and its cost, but it wasnt fair to 
hold it to these  new standards retrospectively.  It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it was passed to me.
Having reviewed the complaint, I came to a different to conclusion to our investigator. I didnt  
think the complaint  should be upheld so I issued a provisional decision.  In this decision,  I 
said:
It doesnt seem to be disputed that Ms J knew she had life assurance as part of her pension. 
And she increased it sometime after she first took the pension,  so she clearly saw a need for 
the life assurance  and thought it could  be of benefit. But the key point  of her complaint is that 
she wasnt made aware of the true cost. She says she would have cancelled her life 
assurance had she been  aware  that her monthly  pension contributions  werent covering the 
cost of the life assurance, and it was in fact eating  in to her pension fund. 
Ref: DRN95467182The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets the rules on what  a 
pension provider must provide in its annual statements.  And until more recently, ReAssure 
wasnt required to provide information  about  the cost of the underlying  life assurance.  From 
2015 ReAssure  did provide more  information  about  the cost of the life assurance in its 
statements, which is what alerted Ms J and prompted her to complain. I dont think it would 
be fair for me to hold ReAssure to a higher standard that the regulators rules in this 
situation. 
Im satisfied that Ms J was aware  she had life assurance,  and the original documentation set 
out the fact that this might be paid from the pension funds if the cost exceeded the monthly 
premium. I can see why Ms J wouldve liked more information about the cost, and I agree 
she may well have  cancelled the life assurance  had she realised it was being paid for in part 
from her pension fund. But the simple  fact is ReAssure provided  the information  it was 
required to, so I cant say its done anything wrong.
I explained I intended to issue a final decision along  these  lines. But I asked  both parties to 
provide any further  comments they had first.
Ms J didnt agree. She responded saying, in summary:
Had ReAssure made her aware of the cost of the life assurance,  she wouldve 
cancelled it and her pension pot would  be bigger
She questioned  why the regulator had now made changes  and shouldnt the 
regulator take responsibility  for this
Other life assurance policies shed held hadnt increased the premiums so she didnt 
expect ReAssure to
The amount  of life assurance quoted on more recent statements seemed to have 
increased further
That she was still paying  for the life assurance even though shed asked ReAssure  to 
cancel it
ReAssure didnt have  anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms J has responded to my provisional  
decision in great  detail. I want to assure  her Ive read everything shes  sent.  But due to the 
informal nature of this service, I wont be responding in the detail shes gone in to. Nor will I 
be addressing  every  point  shes made. Instead Ill focus on the crux of her complaint  that 
she wasnt made aware of the cost of life cover within her pension. 
Having reconsidered  everything, Im not going to uphold Ms Js complaint. I understand how 
strongly she feels about this, and that this will come as a great disappointment to her. But Ill 
explain why and address some  of the points  shes raised.
Ref: DRN95467183Ms Js key argument is that her pension statements didnt clearly show  how much  the life 
assurance was costing and that it ended up costing more than she was paying in. Shes  
asked why ReAssure  has now changed its statements to show  the effect  of life cover. It 
mustve been really frustrating when  Ms J realised what effect the life assurance was having  
on her pension. But as I said in my provisional decision, there was no requirement for 
ReAssure to provide  this information within its annual statements at the time. Whilst the 
regulator has recently changed  what information needs to be in these  statements,  I cant 
hold ReAssure to this new standard retrospectively.
Im satisfied the initial paperwork did explain that the life assurance  might be paid for from 
the pension fund if the cost exceeded the monthly  premium. And Ms J couldve contacted 
ReAssure for further details.
I know Ms J says shes had other  life assurance  policies where the price doesnt increase. 
And Im aware this is common for standalone policies. But this is life assurance which  is 
included within her pension, so works  differently.  And the possibility of the cost increasing is 
explained within the initial documents provided  when Ms J set the pension up. The matter of 
how much  this cost increases is generally a matter  for ReAssure to decide.
Ms J has said that she asked ReAssure to cancel the life cover  a year ago and isnt happy  
this still hasnt been done. This part of her complaint  hasnt been considered by ReAssure 
yet, so Im not going to consider it here. Our investigator is currently helping Ms J set up a 
new complaint about this matter, which she can ask us to look into if she isnt happy with 
ReAssures response.
Ive asked ReAssure  why the amount of life assurance seems  to have increased on recent  
statements. ReAssure has told us this is a mistake and the amount of life cover remains at 
£80,000. Again, if Ms J wishes to complain about  this matter, our investigator can help her 
further.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9546718