K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained Ulster Bank Limited  wont refund him more  than £3,000 for eight 
transactions which he didnt authorise.
background
In September  2018 Mr H was abroad  with a few friends. He went out drinking on 
3 September.  Ulster Bank called him to check whether the transactions he was making were 
him. Mr H confirmed  they were. Three nights  later Mr H was also out with friends in another 
bar. He tried to pay with his card and although that was fine initially,  he was then told it had 
been declined.  He tried a few more times.
He phoned Ulster Bank the day after as his card had been declined again.  He found out that 
was because he had barely any money in his account. Five transactions  for around £370 
each had debited  his account and three  more of a similar size were pending. Mr H said he 
hadnt done these. Ulster  Bank  believed  Mr H had been entering  his card and PIN into the 
terminal in the bar even  as he may have been being  told his card was declined. Therefore 
they felt hed authorised these transactions and wouldnt refund him.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He felt it was possible the bar had told Mr H his card 
was being declined but in fact theyd been  processing the transactions.  That would mean,  
however, that Mr H had consented to these as hed entered the PIN. He didnt think Ulster 
Bank should have  taken  any further steps  to stop these transactions.
Mr H was upset by this conclusion. He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 10 February  2020. I decided there was enough 
evidence to show Ulster Bank should  have identified these transactions and taken action to 
help Mr H. I asked them to repay part of the transactions.
Mr H accepted this outcome. I received  no response  from Ulster  Bank.
I now have all I need to complete  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive seen nothing  which  
makes me come to a different conclusion than I did in my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why.  
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
Ref: DRN93434002In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Firstly thats the law as highlighted above. In broad  terms a bank is expected  to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like Ulster  Bank are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, firms should also have taken  proactive 
steps to look to identify  and help prevent transactions  particularly  unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers  from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a number of 
banks and trade associations were  involved  in the development of).
 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Ulster Bank  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr H, or whether  it should have done  more than it did. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Ulster Bank and Mr H have told us. Our investigator also got hold of copies of 
Mr Hs calls to Ulster  Bank on 7 September. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 4 October  2019.  I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  are pertinent to this complaint:
Ref: DRN93434003Theres no dispute Mr H was in a bar on 6 September. He tells us he was with two 
friends buying vodkas  and red bull. He thought this would cost about £7. He paid for 
the first round with his Ulster  Bank  card and entered his PIN.
It seems  clear  he either didnt pay attention to the amount showing on the card 
terminal so didnt  know what  he was being charged. Or he accepted  what  he was told 
in the bar that what was showing was the foreign  currency amount.
By using  his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal  or even whether 
Mr H was so drunk he didnt notice what it said, Mr H was consenting to the 
transactions.
Mr Hs story is consistent and credible. He was told the transactions were  being 
declined after he entered the PIN. This is also what he told Ulster Bank the following 
day.
Another friend ended up paying for drinks.
Our service is aware the bar involved has been subject to a number of very similar 
complaints: over-charging, or misleading customers about what  they were paying.
Ulster Bank hasnt  dismissed Mr Hs story  either.
Even if Mr H is lying to us  and I have  considered this possibility  and he was 
actually buying  additional services in the club, Im still confused  why these would all 
be different amounts.  The transactions look odd. Transactions happen at roughly  15 
minute intervals after 22:02 (which wouldnt be massively surprising if Mr H was 
buying something other than alcohol). But each transaction was for a slightly different  
amount. This looks deliberate to me and would  be highly unusual  when  rounds  of 
drinks  or even  services  often cost exactly the same time and again.
Mr H has told us himself  that he did enter  his PIN whenever the terminal  was presented to 
him so I dont think its a stretch to say  under the law  he consented to the transactions.  
Because of this, Ulster  Bank had an obligation  to follow Mr Hs instruction. But there are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  In doing so Ive looked at the statements for the account 
and what we know about Mr H based  on his actions  when Ulster Bank alerted him earlier 
that week to potential fraudulent transactions.
These transactions were all unusual compared  to Mr Hs normal  usage. Hed more recently 
been abroad elsewhere but I can see nothing to show  similar transactions  to these.
Hed also made Ulster Bank aware  earlier that week where he was. Theyd  picked up on 
unusual transactions   for vastly lower  amounts  which Mr H agreed were him. This 
demonstrates to me that Ulster Bank  was capable of identifying unusual  transactions. These 
disputed transactions  were all for amounts in excess of £365 and very quickly took Mr Hs 
account balance  to almost  nothing.
I think the fact that Ulster Banks systems  didnt flag these payments as suspicious wasnt  
fair and reasonable given the circumstances. If they had I think its feasible Mr H would  have 
been able to confirm he hadnt  authorised  payments for those  amounts.
Ulster Bank would have  needed a starting  point. I think its more than likely they wouldnt 
have noticed the first transaction or even  the second. However the third should have been 
picked up. I say this because  of the values involved. Any check on potential fraudulent 
transactions should identify transactions in certain foreign currencies in certain types of 
outlets, including  bars and nightclubs.
Ref: DRN93434004Therefore I think its fair and reasonable that Ulster Bank refund the third to eighth 
transactions to Mr H. Theyll need to add 8% simple interest a year to those amounts.
Our investigator was sceptical about Mr Hs testimony because  hed not got in touch with 
Ulster Bank for some  time after the event   although its clear Mr H complained  the day after.  
Ive considered this too but dont  find it as suspicious as he did. Although undoubtedly a 
large amount of money  was involved  and youd expect a customer to see what they could do 
to get this back, we dont know what else was going  on in Mr Hs life.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Ulster  Bank  Limited to:
Refund Mr H for all the disputed transactions except the first two; and
Add 8% simple interest to those from the date he was debited until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9343400