K821x#15complaint
Ms L has complained  about the way Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  dealt with a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy. 
background
Ms L was involved in an incident with another car in December 2017. Based on CCTV 
footage, Admiral told Ms L at the end of December 2017 that it intended to settle the claim 
as a fault claim against her. 
Ms L complained to Admiral about a number of issues which  it replied to in September  2018.  
Ms L said Admiral had failed to properly investigate the claim and its service had been  very 
poor. 
Admiral upheld all of Ms Ls complaints. To put things right, it refunded  the excess it 
deducted from the total loss settlement it paid for her car. This was £500. And it paid 
compensation of £155. This was £25 for its delay replying to her complaints, £30 for calls 
shed made  chasing Admiral about  her claim, and £100 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ms L remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability. But we can look to see if an insurer  
has carried out a proper investigation and reached its decision reasonably. He didnt think  
Admiral had. 
The CCTV footage  Admiral relied on didnt  clearly show the incident.  And Ms L had provided  
details of independent witnesses who were  happy to provide a statement which  supported 
Ms Ls version of events.  But Admiral failed to request  these until six months  after the 
incident  after Ms L complained. 
So the investigator thought Admiral should pay Ms L a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused  her. He also recommended Admiral remove  the 
fault claim marker from internal and external databases. 
Admiral accepted the investigators recommendation. Ms L wants an ombudsman  to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Admirals handling of Ms Ls claim has been poor from the outset. As Admiral 
upheld all of Ms Ls complaints, I dont intend  to go over in detail the timeline  of events which 
the investigator addressed in his view.  
Admirals policy has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance 
policies. This term allows Admiral to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in 
Ms Ls name.  We dont  disagree with this term in principal  provided  Admiral can show  it 
treated Ms L fairly when  applying  it.
Ref: DRN95746082Ms L asked  Admiral to provide a copy of the CCTV footage  which it relied on to decide 
liability. I can see from Admirals call notes that on 22 February  2018  Ms L chased it to send 
her a copy of the footage. On 21 June  2018 Admiral agreed to send Ms L a copy of the 
footage. But it didnt. 
When Admiral  provided us with a copy of the footage,  it explained that the footage  was 
provided by the third party and so cant be disclosed to Ms L. I think  it would  have been  
helpful for Admiral  to have explained its position to Ms L from the outset  but I cant  see that 
it ever did. So I can understand Ms Ls frustration and upset at not being able to review  such  
an important piece  of evidence which Admiral relied  on  without  an explanation as to why it 
didnt then send  a copy to her. 
Having reviewed the footage, I dont think its enough for Admiral  to have reached the 
decision it did. And its clear from its own notes that  following the first review of the footage 
 subsequent agents didnt think it was enough  to decide liability either.  
Admirals notes show that it made contact with the independent witnesses in June 2018. 
This was six months after the incident and after Ms L complained. It told us that as at 
November 2018  it hadnt received the statements  from them but had chased  for them.  I 
havent seen proof  of this. 
Ms L told Admiral that its handling of the claim has caused her considerable distress and 
inconvenience. She was in her final year at university. Shed had to spend  a considerable 
amount of time in phone calls chasing Admiral  and challenging its decision to hold her at 
fault for the incident, which she believed was wrong.  
As I said,  we cannot decide liability. And I cant safely conclude that  had Admiral  properly  
investigated the claim, the outcome would have been in Ms Ls favour. 
But I think its handling of the claim was poor and it failed to properly investigate the claim. I 
dont think it had sufficient  evidence to support the decision  it made.  And it failed to promptly 
request witness statements which  from its discussions with one of them  clearly indicated  
support for Ms Ls account  and a willingness to provide  a statement. 
So the remaining  issue for me to decide is whether Admiral has done enough to put things 
right. Its refunded  Ms Ls excess to her of £500. This would have only been payable if 
Admiral had been able to settle the claim as a non fault claim. We dont know  for sure that 
this would have  been the case. In addition,  its paid £155 compensation of which £100 is for 
distress and inconvenience its caused Ms L. It also reinstated Ms Ls no claims bonus. This 
goes some way to putting things right in my view.
But I think a fairer level of compensation   in addition to what  its already done  is for 
Admiral to pay Ms L a further £100. And I think it should ensure the claim is recorded as a 
non fault claim as it failed  to carry out a proper  investigation. So I dont  think it reached its 
decision in a reasonable way. Admiral has accepted our recommendations.
I think Admiral  should provide Ms L with a letter confirming  the above  so that she can 
provide it to future insurers  if necessary. 
Ref: DRN95746083my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Write  to Ms L to confirm it incorrectly recorded the claim in December 2017 as a 
fault claim and confirm it reinstated her NCB.  
Update any internal  and external databases  to reflect the change.
Pay Ms L a further £100 compensation in addition to the compensation Admirals 
already paid her for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms L a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9574608