K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with way that their home  insurance claim for water  damage was 
handled by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
background
On 5 March 2018 Mr and Mrs B had an escape  of water in their home  from a pipe behind the 
washing machine.  The water leaked  out over most of the ground floor.  They made a claim to 
Lloyds who sent out a loss adjuster to do a site visit. Mr and Mrs B opted (though they say 
they were given no choice) to use their own contractors. They  instructed a drying  company  
to attend but were  dissatisfied with the first company they appointed. The new drying 
company visited on 6 April and reported on 11 April.  They recommended the lifting  of the 
tiles but Lloyds loss adjuster believed that drying  pads would be effective and should  be 
used instead.  After Mr B made representations, Lloyds agreed to the tiles being lifted at the 
end of April. Drying started  in early May and Mr B the corresponded with Lloyds  concerning 
various payments.  There was an issue with the kitchen units  which Mr B said needed 
replacing. Lloyds  insisted on a site visit and the issue  was settled by a cash  payment. 
Mr and Mrs B stayed  at the property  instead  of moving into alternative accommodation 
because of problems  with pets, although  Mr B says they werent offered such 
accommodation.  They were paid a daily allowance. The claim was closed in early August. 
Mr B made complaints to Lloyds about the delays  in the matter progressing  and about the 
way the claim was handled  particularly the failure  to respond to his emails in time. Lloyds 
accepted that as the loss adjusters view that heating pads should be used was overturned, 
some delay was caused. It agreed that this caused  Mr and Mrs B inconvenience in having  to 
rearrange their contractors. It further said that some  of Mr Bs emails could have been 
responded to more  promptly. It offered  £350  compensation, though Im not clear if this has 
been paid.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that Lloyds increase its compensation 
payment to £450,  taking into account  the delays in responding  to Mr Bs emails.
Lloyds said it thought the payment proposed was adequate.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal firstly with Mr Bs points about using his own contractors and alternative 
accommodation. In all cases where  repairs are necessary  we would expect insurers  to 
consider using their own contractors. But each case is different and there  may be reasons 
why a consumer  might want to use their own contractors. Mr B says he wasnt  given a 
choice and was told it would be easier and quicker  if he were to use his own contractors. I 
note that Lloyds did offer the use of its drying contractors but Mr B rejected those as he 
wanted someone independent of Lloyds. It seems  likely to me that Mr B wanted to instruct  
contractors recommended to him and who he could trust, independent of any association 
Ref: DRN99552312with Lloyds. So I dont  think he would have been happy using Lloyds contractors for the 
main work. So I wont criticise Lloyds for not offering the use of its own contractors.
As for alternative accommodation  Mr B has made  it plain to us and to Lloyds that they 
couldnt move out because  of the situation with their pets i.e. it was unlikely that they would 
be able to find accommodation that suited  their circumstances. Lloyds accepted  this and 
paid Mr and Mrs B a daily allowance instead, which I think is reasonable.
Turning now to the delays, Mr B was originally going  to have a drying company visit on 22 
March. But he wasnt happy with them and instructed an alternative company. Mr B says 
there was a delay  as the company wanted payment up front, so couldnt  attend until 7 April, 
after Lloyds had made the payment. This may have caused a delay of a few days  but it was 
Mr Bs decision to change  contractors. 
The major delay, and a lot of the email  correspondence took place during April whilst Mr B 
tried to persuade  Lloyds  to accept the lifting of the tiles rather  than the drying by heat pads. 
This was recommended  by his contractor, and I think Lloyds has accepted  that it shouldnt 
have tried to push Mr B into using  the heating pad method. Having accepted  Mr Bs use of 
his appointed contactors to do the drying, it should have accepted their expertise. It agreed 
to the tiles being lifted around the end of April, and the contractors started drying on 7 May. I 
think Lloyds was responsible for about a months delay here. And I have to take into account 
that Mr and Mrs B and their family had to live in the damp house during this time.  Ive further 
noted that Mr B had to rearrange  their contactors start date because of this. He also says he 
couldnt use some of their original  contractors because of this. I accept that this caused more 
inconvenience.. 
Mr B further complained  that Lloyds wouldnt accept  that there was water damage to the 
kitchen units and that it insisted that it inspect the units. I dont think  there was anything  
wrong with Lloyds doing that  often  in these cases the damage isnt evident  on first 
inspection. I think that Lloyds reached a reasonable settlement with Mr and Mrs B over this.
Mr B also complained that he sent a number  of emails that werent  replied to. Lloyds  says 
that it received  a lot of emails from him, sometimes several in a day and that its loss 
adjusters replied within a reasonable time. In considering the documents  sent to us by both 
Mr B and Lloyds, I think there  was some delay on Lloyds part. I can understand Mr Bs 
frustration as he was organising the repairs himself. On occasions the loss adjuster 
promised responses  by certain dates but then didnt reply, adding to the frustration. 
Although, for an escape of water  claim,  this matter  was resolved in reasonable time I do 
think there were gaps in communication.
Finally, I note Mr B also complained about  the way his complaint was handled by Lloyds  
particularly delays with that. I should clarify  here that complaint handling by insurers  isnt a 
regulated activity and we have no power  to consider  complaints about it.
Overall Ive come to the conclusion that a payment of £450 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. Its in line with awards we have  made in similar cases and takes account of 
the issues Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN99552313my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to 
Mr and Mrs B £450 compensation. If it has already paid £350, it need  only pay a further 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2020.  
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9955231