K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the charges Ald Automotive Limited (Ald Automotive), has asked 
him to pay since he handed a car back at the end of its lease. Hes also unhappy about 
them missing a collection date and that theyve  pursued arrears whilst his complaint has 
been in progress.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in August  2015. He funded the deal through a three year hire 
agreement with Ald Automotive.  But when he returned the car at the end of its term he was 
disappointed to receive a bill for refurbishment  costs  he said were unreasonable.  He was 
also disappointed  that, whilst the business  arranged an inspection of the vehicle on the 
correct day, they failed  to arrange  collection until three days  later. He said this meant he had 
to pay for additional insurance and storage and he wanted Ald Automotive to reimburse  his 
expenses. 
He raised a complaint with Ald Automotive  but they didnt think  theyd done  anything wrong. 
They said the charges for refurbishment  were  in line with the guidelines  for fair wear and tear 
provided by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA)  and they thought 
the damage identified in the inspectors report was clearly outside of fair wear and tear and 
therefore chargeable. They apologised  for the delay in collection and offered Mr M £50 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience hed suffered but they didnt think  they needed  to 
take any further action.
Mr M disagreed with Ald Automotive so he referred  his complaint to this service. But our 
adjudicator didnt think the business had done anything  wrong.  She looked at the damage  in 
the inspection  report and she thought that the scratches to the wing and wheel were  outside 
of the fair wear and tear standard provided  by the BVRLA and were  therefore chargeable. 
She also considered  the impact the delayed collection had on Mr M but as hed not been 
provided evidence  of the additional insurance and storage costs hed incurred, she didnt 
think it would  be fair to ask Ald Automotive  to reimburse these. She noted Mr Ms additional 
concern, that since hed raised his complaint Ald Automotive had aggressively pursued 
payment. She explained that whilst this service  would expect a business  not to pursue a 
customer until a complaint was resolved, we couldnt insist this was done.
But Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator.  He said hed not received the invoice for 
refurbishment within the four week guideline provided by the BVRLA  and the invoice didnt 
provide him with the requisite information hed need to dispute  the charges. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I dont think Ald Automotive has been unreasonable here.  
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN94006852Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire agreement Mr M signed said that the vehicle must be kept in a good condition.  It 
explained that this condition would  be assessed against the BVRLA guidance  and warned 
that refurbishment charges could be incurred if the condition was outside of this guidance.
The BVRLA fair wear  and tear guidelines are those  commonly used by the industry  to 
inspect new cars against. So Im persuaded that Ald Automotive  were  not imposing  unfair 
standards in the inspection that was completed. 
Ive reviewed the damage that the inspector says was outside  normal  wear  and tear. The 
scratch to the wing is significantly longer  than the 25mm allowed. The ruler the inspector has 
placed alongside the scratch  would suggest  its about 60mm and has penetrated the primer. 
So I think thats clearly  chargeable.
The scuffing of the wheel is more than 50mm about  the circumference and is therefore also 
beyond the fair wear  and tear standard. Mr M says this would wipe off but I dont think  thats  
likely. It seems to me that its consistent with scuffing that would need professional 
refurbishment to bring it back to standard.
Mr M says the inspection pictures  should have been supplied  to him within four weeks.  I can 
see that Ald Automotive  dispute the wording  in the BVRLA guidance. They think they simply 
needed to supply an invoice. Ive considered whats fair in the circumstances and I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask Ald Automotive to waive  the charges. Regardless of the 
timescales I think its clear that the damage was present and would  have reduced  the resale 
value of the car. I can see from the inspection report that Mr M had a chance  to see what 
charges the inspector was suggesting and I think its reasonable he therefore had a chance  
to follow  this up at the time. But he didnt. 
I think the charges  levied are reasonable and in line with others  Ive seen within  the industry 
for similar damage. Ald Automotive doesnt  have  to complete the refurbishment  it charges 
for. It can decide to take the risk of sending the car to auction and potentially realising a 
lower value than they had assumed  when  structuring  the finance  arrangement. 
Mr M says the three day delay in collecting the vehicle resulted in him incurring costs.  But 
hes not provided evidence of these  costs as he says the storage  was paid in cash and the 
insurance information is no longer available. In the absence of further evidence  I havent 
been persuaded that the costs have been incurred and therefore I dont feel it would be fair 
to ask Ald Automotive to refund them.  Theyve already offered £50 to compensate Mr M for 
the delay and in the circumstances  I think thats reasonable.
I can see that the business has pursued  Mr M for the outstanding debt. Wed usually expect 
a business to put any collection  activity  on hold whilst a complaint was on-going but Im 
afraid we cant insist a business does this and so Im unable to ask Ald Automotive  to take 
any action in respect of its debt collection  activity.
Ref: DRN94006853my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9400685