K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Miss M complained about some transactions on her account from 30th May 2017  until 3rd 
June 2017. She said she had notified HSBC about  this on 31st May 2017  but it failed to block  
her account  and let the disputed transactions continue.
Over the next few days, she says payments were made at hotels and retail outlets without 
her consent.
Miss M said the payments were being  made  by someone else who had managed  to obtain 
her card details. Included in the transactions was also an over the counter withdrawal of 
£4800.  Miss M told HSBC she made  this withdrawal under duress  because  an acquaintance  
from university was forcing her to do it. She said he made her go into the branch  and told her 
to withdraw all her money whilst he waited in the car.  When  she returned, she says he held 
a gun to her and took the money from her.  She doesnt  say how this incident ended  but 
that she had reported it to the police.
HSBC did not uphold her complaint.  It said the payments had been made using her genuine 
card and PIN. In relation  to the counter withdrawal, it suggested Miss M speak to the police if 
the circumstances were as she described.  It also explained that Miss M had made  
numerous complaints  about transactions to other retailers  in the preceding  months  and the 
majority of them had been declined.
Miss M then brought the complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  think she could  ask HSBC to do anymore.  Miss M didnt agree  
although didnt  say why  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, HSBC is entitled to hold Miss M liable for these transactions  if the 
evidence shows it was more likely  than not that she made and authorised them.   But its not 
enough for it to show that her card and PIN were  used.  It need  to evidence  that she also 
consented to the transactions.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that Miss Ms genuine card and PIN were  
used for most of the transactions.  The manual key entry  transactions  at the hotel were 
made following a successful chip and PIN payment  so on balance, I am satisfied that these 
too were authenticated.
So, I now need to decide whether I think Miss M consented to these payments too.  Ive 
thought carefully  about what Miss S says about  the circumstances  in which  these 
transactions were  made.  But I dont think her account is plausible  or consistent.
Ref: DRN96524842HSBC doesnt  have a record of Miss M making contact on 31st May to report  her card and 
been taken by someone  and considering Miss M had been logging  onto her online banking 
throughout this period, I would have  expected  her to have  seen that the card had been 
continued to be used.  She doesnt  say she contacted HSBC again.
Ive also considered the chronology of events here.   If Miss M had indeed  contacted  HSBC  
on 31st May to say her card had been taken, Ive thought about why she then went  to a 
branch on 1st June to withdraw her money with this male - and not mention her situation to 
anyone. And we know she must  have had the opportunity because she told HSBC  during 
those initial  calls that she was with a friend during parts of the period  in particular when this 
male was using the card in the hotel.
So, I think Miss M made or authorised these transactions  herself.  Either  way, I wont  be 
asking HSBC to refund this money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9652484