K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about how Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited  (SPML)  has dealt with his 
secured loan account whilst he has been  in financial difficulties. He explained he feels I 
have not been treated fairly as they have never  once considered  reducing  or waiving their 
charges and interest. He feels that by not doing  so, SPML knew the level of debt he was in 
would continue to rise indefinitely  making the total amount unsustainable thereby causing 
severe financial difficulties. Mr G believes  this contravenes the FCA guidelines for the 
treatment of customers in default  or arrears and that due regard has not been paid at any 
stage to his interests,  as SPML  has allowed  the situation to escalate for many years without 
offering him any positive  help. 
background
Mr G took out a secured loan in 2006 for £5,550  over a ten-year  term. This loan was granted 
by a lender other than SPML. Unfortunately, he got into financial difficulties in 2007 and the 
lender at the time took him to court to repossess the property. The court  gave the lender a 
suspended possession order and Mr G was told that if he wanted to keep his home,  he 
needed to pay the contractual monthly  payment (CMP) plus an additional £20.
SPML took over the loan in 2010.  From  this point SPML  spoke to Mr G on numerous 
occasions to try to deal with his arrears and various  payment  arrangements  (where Mr G 
agreed to pay the CMP plus an additional  amount toward the arrears) were  agreed.  
However, Mr G didnt  maintain the arrangements, so arrears continued to build and interest 
and charges were  applied. 
The loan term ended  in April 2016  and at that time the balance, including arrears,  interest  
and charges was slightly  over £12,000. Mr G didnt make any further payments to the loan.
Mr G complained several times  2011, 2013, 2016  and 2018 - about not being treated  fairly 
because of the addition of interest and charges. He had the option to refer his complaints to 
this service on each occasion,  but didnt do so after the 2011, 2013  or 2016 complaints. 
In response to the 2018 complaint SPML said Mr Gs complaint was the same as the 
complaint hed made previously, and it had responded  to in 2016.  It referred him back to that 
response and told him it wouldnt be reviewing  the matters raised again. However, in March  
2019 SPML  commented further. It said it had attempted  to support Mr G, but he hadnt done 
what he needed to in order to maintain the agreements. It confirmed the term of the loan had 
ended and it had tried to work with him on how to repay the balance  of the loan, but he 
hadnt co-operated. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with SPMLs  response and asked us to consider  his complaint. 
We asked SPML for its file and it confirmed that it was happy for us to look at the complaint. 
When our investigator considered the complaint, he looked into all the interest  and charges 
applied since the loan had been  transferred  to SPML. He didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr G didnt accept the investigators opinion  and after discussion, he asked that the 
complaint be considered  by an ombudsman.
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.  I noted  that SPML had said in response to the 
2018 complaint  that it was not reconsidering what it had looked  at under previous 
complaints. As such, I requested clarification as to whether SPML was willing for us to 
Ref: DRN93119452consider Mr Gs concerns  for the entire  period since it had taken over the loan i.e. consider 
the 2011, 2013 and 2016 complaints. SPML confirmed that it was not willing  for us to 
consider matters covered under the earlier complaints.  
In light of SPMLs response I reviewed  our jurisdiction to consider Mr Gs complaint. 
I concluded, in the absence of consent from SPML, we were only able to consider Mr Gs 
concerns for the period after the November 2016  complaint response.  
I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2021,  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Before I detail my conclusions,  I would 
confirm that I have reviewed my conclusions about  our jurisdiction, and I remain  satisfied 
that we can only consider  Mr Gs concerns about the administration  of the loan after 
November 2016.
Mr G doesnt think  SPML has treated him fairly  because of the interest it has continued  to 
add to the loan and the charges it has applied; he thinks it should have considered  stopping  
charging interest and charges, or reducing  the interest rate. Mr G is right that lenders are 
expected to make reasonable  efforts to assist a borrower who is in financial difficulties and 
has got into arrears because of them. Whilst Mr Gs loan isnt a regulated  mortgage,  we 
would expect a lender  to behave in the same way it would with a regulated mortgage, 
because the loan is secured on Mr Gs home.  The lender must give the borrower the 
opportunity to repay the arrears  before  it takes  action to repossess the property.  When  doing 
so it must give a reasonable time period over which the arrears  are to be paid and if 
possible, establish a payment plan, which is practical in terms of the circumstances  of the 
customer. 
In general, a lender wont apply charges where  a customer co-operates  with it in paying  what  
they agree  to under a payment plan, even where that plan doesnt meet the amount of the 
CMP. Such arrangements will be regularly reviewed and whilst they are in place, and the 
customer fulfils their commitment under the plan, the lender also wont  usually start legal 
action. However, where a customer doesnt  co-operate with attempts to put in place plans  to 
deal with their financial  difficulties or later to try to repay arrears  or doesnt fulfil their 
commitment under those  plans, it isnt unreasonable for additional charges to be made as 
administering such a loan will cost the lender more than if the loan were running  as it should 
be.
When setting plans  for repayment  of a loan and arrears,  a lender will complete an income 
and expenditure  exercise. This identifies whether a customer can afford to pay their loan 
and, if there  is income over and above that needed  to cover their basic  outgoings, how much 
they can afford to pay toward clearing the arrears and associated  costs. A lender will only 
ask a consumer  to pay more than the CMP if the income and expenditure exercise shows  its 
affordable.
I would also comment that it isnt unreasonable for a lender to expect  a customer  to repay  
money owed. And while that money  is owed,  it is normal  that interest is applied  to the debt.  
In this case, following the term of the loan ending, Mr G hasnt made any payments toward 
his debt. SPML has attempted to work  with Mr G so that payments start again, but he hasnt 
co-operated. In the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable  for interest and charges for 
the additional administration, and later the cost of legal  action,  to be added  to the debt.
Ref: DRN93119453SPML accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr G didnt  he reiterated that his complaint wasnt  
about interest, fees or charges, but that the regulators rules  hadnt been followed.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I note that Mr G has again said that he doesnt think I have  understood his complaint, but I 
can reassure him that I have. However, I have already explained that when looking at a 
complaint, we assess what is at the core of that complaint, rather  than looking  at the surface  
wording used to express it. Whilst Mr G has said he doesnt believe SPML has followed the 
regulators rules, this is because of how it has applied interest, fees and charges.  Therefore, 
at the core of his complaint is about  the application of interest, fees and charges, as were his 
earlier complaints.
In the absence of any new evidence of comment from the parties, I see no reason to change 
my conclusions. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before 
5 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311945