K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy that West Bromwich Building  Society is reporting  a mortgage shortfall debt 
on his credit file. Mr M says that the mortgage account was included in his Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA).  Mr H has had to incur substantial legal fees in order for West 
Brom to accept that it was wrong to hold him liable for the shortfall.  
Mr H is also unhappy about the appointment of Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) and 
that one of his properties  which is unsold  remains in his name,  which he considers  has 
implications for Stamp Duty Land  Tax (SDLT).
He Is asking for reimbursement of his legal fees and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
background
Mr H had two buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgages with West Brom taken  out in about 2007. They 
were for £155,000  and £130,000, on an interest-only basis.  Mr H also bought  three other 
BTL properties  and a property in Spain with funds from other lenders.
Unfortunately, when the credit crunch  hit from 2009 onwards Mr H fell into financial  
difficulties. By July 2011 he realised all of his properties were  in negative equity. Mr H 
surrendered all his properties back to the lenders and sought advice about his financial 
situation, as he realised he was over-committed.
Mr H was advised to enter  into an IVA. The proposal  for the IVA set out his existing and 
contingent future liabilities, including his estimate  of the mortgage shortfall debts as a future 
contingent liability (FCL).  
I will not set out the history of what happened after that, as both parties are aware of the 
protracted correspondence concerning West Broms  stance that it didnt consider itself to be 
bound by the IVA. It wasnt  until 2018 that West Brom acknowledged that it had been wrong 
to think it wasnt subject  to the IVA.
Mr H complained. He said that West Brom had no right to hold him responsible for the 
shortfall debt, as this had been included in his IVA. Because  West Brom  refused to 
acknowledge that the shortfall debt was included in the IVA, Mr H had to involve his 
solicitors, and obtained Counsels Opinion.  After  protracted correspondence, West Brom 
finally acknowledged that it had given Mr H incorrect information.
West Brom  agreed to reimburse some of the fees,  but Mr H wasnt  happy with the amount. 
He brought his complaint  to us. After considering everything Mr H and West Brom said, the 
adjudicator thought West Brom should  reimburse  90% of Mr Hs legal fees.
The adjudicator explained that it was due to the LPARs actions  that the property remained 
in Mr Hs name, and so he would need  to take this up with the LPARs.  
Finally, the adjudicator recommended  West Brom pay Mr H £750 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Neither Mr H nor West Brom accepted the adjudicators findings. Mr H thinks that £750 is 
insufficient to compensate  him for the impact  on his life of the incorrect credit reporting by 
Ref: DRN90979562West Brom  of the mortgage debt. West Brom thought that the legal fees it was being asked 
to pay were excessive and didnt relate wholly to work done as a result of its errors.
Because the parties didnt  accept  the adjudicators findings, it now falls on me to issue  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue in this complaint  is the amount of legal fees West Brom should be required 
to reimburse to Mr H. 
The Insolvency Rules require  the proposal to state  how the debtor intends to deal with 
secured creditors. West Brom  was sent notification as a creditor. Im satisfied the insolvency 
practitioner anticipated the likelihood  of a shortfall  and took steps to include it as a FCL in 
the IVA.
Im glad to see that West Brom has now acknowledged that it was wrong to suggest Mr H 
was responsible for the mortgage shortfall debt.  West Brom has agreed  to reimburse some 
of the legal fees, but not all of them.  Mr Hs total legal  costs were £5,000 plus VAT (making a 
total of £6,000).
Ive reviewed the solicitors breakdown provided. From this, Im satisfied that the majority  of 
costs incurred relate to the issues with West Brom and its (incorrect) refusal to acknowledge 
it was bound by the IVA.  I am a solicitor  and Ive looked at the amount of work itemised and 
charged for. It appears to me that the work  itemised  is proportionate to the fees charged. 
Likewise, the fees charged  are not excessive for this type of work.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that West Brom should refund 90% of Mr Hs legal fees,  
as follows:
£5,000 x 90% £4,500
VAT on £4,500 @ 20% £   900
Total: £5,400
I dont know if Mr H has already paid this amount. If he has, and is able to provide evidence  
of this, then West Brom must also pay interest  at 8% per annum simple, calculated  from the 
date of payment  to the date of acceptance  of this final decision.
Because the shortfall debt was included in the IVA, Im satisfied that Mr Hs credit file should 
reflect the default of the mortgage accounts from the date when his IVA was concluded, 
which was 27 January 2015. 
As the investigator  explained, the actions of the LPARs are outside  the scope of our rules, 
so Im unable to comment on their actions.  If Mr H is unhappy that property he surrendered  
in 2011 is still in his name, hell need to take that up with the LPARs  directly.
As far as trouble  and upset is concerned, Im satisfied West Broms actions have caused 
distress to Mr H for a number  of years. But we dont award punitive damages.  In the 
Ref: DRN90979563circumstances, I think  an award  of £750  as recommended by the adjudicator   is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, West Bromwich 
Building Society must  do the following:
reimburse Mr Hs legal  fees of £5,400 as set out above;
if Mr H provides evidence that he has already paid the legal fees, pay simple interest of 
8% per annum on £5,400 from the date of payment to the date of acceptance of this final 
decision.*
pay compensation of £750 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
* If West Brom  believes it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest part of the award, it may do 
provided it also presents Mr H with the relevant tax certificate  so that he can, if eligible, reclaim the tax.
Ref: DRN9097956