K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Gate Capital Group  Ltd wrongly advised him to transfer  all of his 
pension plans to a SIPP and invest this in funds which were managed on a discretionary 
basis by Beaufort  Securities. At the time Gate Capital Group  was known as Plutus Group.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision on 29 July 2020, 
which is attached  to and forms part of this final decision. Briefly,  in my provisional decision I 
concluded:
-Gates advice for Mr T to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension wasnt  unsuitable, 
given the critical  yield and his evident  concerns he had about not being able to make 
use of spouses benefits  under the DB pension.
-But the low charges  under his existing  defined contribution (DC)  pensions,  particularly 
the occupational  scheme, were almost impossible to replicate  under a private 
arrangement. I didnt  think the ability  to do successor drawdown was an attractive 
enough feature to overcome this, when his dependants could inherit lump sums from 
the existing plans.
-As this meant Mr T only had about £100,000  (from the DB scheme) to potentially 
invest in discretionary fund management  (DFM), he had neither the fund size nor 
tolerance for risk to make  this viable.  There was also no evidence  of how Beaufort  was 
selected over other discretionary  managers  which could have been cheaper for Mr T  
it appeared this selection  was driven  by the way Mr T had been  referred  to the adviser,  
having already been  cold-called  about potential investments.
-There  were  significant failures  in Gates due diligence into how Beaufort would 
manage Mr Ts funds.  It failed to document  how it ensured  Beaufort knew what 
mandate to manage Mr Ts funds to (which Ill go into more detail on below). The initial 
investments into three high-risk  debentures should have caused immediate concern, 
and this was two months before  Mr T moved to the advisers new firm.
-I addressed Gates arguments  about  what liability this new firm (now  in default to the 
FSCS) should have for failing to do anything about the investments after that point. 
And also whether I should  recognise that Beaufort (also in default  to the FSCS) could 
separately be said to have  caused some  of Mr Ts loss. I concluded that it was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case for Gate to compensate  Mr T in full  
but if it paid that compensation  in full, for Mr T to give an undertaking that if that FSCS  
additionally paid compensation, and didnt seek to recover  this from Gate, he would 
repay Gate any of the compensation received which  exceeds the total loss suffered.
Gate responded to say that the premise of my decision (including the compensation award)  
should take into account that the investments  in the Beaufort portfolio with a nil value are for 
Beaufort to compensate, not Gate.  It highlighted that the mismanagement of investments at 
Beaufort was widespread,  and had led to sanction by the FCA and that firms demise.
I wrote  to Gate again on 21 September 2020,  a copy of which  went  to Mr T  and set out in 
further detail the extent  of Gates  due diligence failures into how Beaufort  would manage 
Mr Ts DFM  portfolio.  Below is a summary  of what I said.
In July 2012 the former regulator (FSA) issued finalised guidance on assessing  suitability  of 
centralised investment  propositions (such  as DFM). This set out that even if an advice firm 
adopted a proposition created by a third party, it must conduct adequate due diligence to 
ensure the proposition is likely to be suitable  for its target clients and met their needs  and 
Ref: DRN96612322objectives. There was a non-exhaustive  list of features to consider:  including  charges; 
reputation and financial standing; type of underlying assets in which the proposition invests; 
and the DFMs own approach to undertaking due diligence on those  investments.
The FSA further said that a personal  recommendation  should  be based on the reasonable 
belief that a client has the necessary knowledge  and experience  to understand the nature of 
the risks of the underlying  investments held in the proposition. It also warned  against the use 
of risk-rated portfolios  without checking that the underlying investments aligned  accurately 
with the risk descriptions  used  and went on to say, with my emphasis:
Where a firm refers investment selections to a discretionary manager, both the introducing  firm 
and the discretionary  management firm have obligations to ensure  that a personal 
recommendation or a decision to trade is suitable for the client. The obligations on each party 
will depend  upon the nature and extent of the respective service  provided. Both parties 
should be clear on their respective service, and ensure they meet the corresponding 
suitability obligations.  If either or both  parties are not clear, there  is a risk that clients may 
receive unsuitable advice and/or  have their portfolios managed inappropriately.
Consequently, I said that in order to successfully hand over part of the responsibility of 
assessing suitability  of Mr Ts portfolio to Beaufort,  there was on overarching  responsibility 
on Gate to ensure that the respective obligations of both firms were agreed and understood. 
That was also highlighted in contemporaneous  good  practice  guides  published  by the 
Personal Finance  Society (PFS). I expected this to be documented in writing, but all Gate 
had been able to give us was:
-its advisers assertions of an agreed  process  for Gate to complete a Risk Profiling 
Questionnaire, which assessed  Mr T as having a medium attitude to risk;
-Beaufort apparently  creating  a personalised illustration for Mr T from sight of this 
attitude to risk score  as shown by the Total Return Model  Portfolio being selected.
I didnt find this evidence  persuasive. From  other  complaints I had seen, the Total  Return 
Model Portfolio appears to be subdivided  into seven risk ratings,  so that description alone is 
not adequate to describe  what investments would be made. Medium  risk would correspond  
to 4/7, but the factsheet for that portfolio  wasnt on the file Gate originally provided to the 
ombudsman service; it only surfaced later on. So I was also not persuaded that this was 
attached to and an integral part of the personalised illustration.
Even if Gate  could show that Beaufort was aware of Mr Ts attitude to risk, it hadnt 
demonstrated it carried out adequate due diligence to establish what  a medium risk Beaufort  
portfolio was likely  to contain. The factsheet it had belatedly provided  was dated about six 
months before Mr T invested and contained no listing of the largest holdings or past 
performance information, because the portfolio was new.  I accepted  that the factsheet had a 
10% holding  in (UK) corporate bonds in what it described as its typical asset allocation, but 
I considered Gates  due diligence  should reasonably have  gone  further  than this  given that 
it had no real evidence  as to what in practice  the entirety of the portfolio contained.
I also referred to the total lack of any follow up by Gate to the initial  investments made which  
were plainly inconsistent  with a 10% holding in UK corporate bonds  (if this is taken as a 
proxy for the type of debentures  Mr T invested in). I should now additionally note here that 
the typical asset allocation also included 5% in global corporate bonds,  but this doesnt 
obviously alter this significant mismatch. A later annual statement Mr T received from 
Beaufort said the risk profile and objective of his portfolio was undefined.  And there was 
nothing (such as a personalised illustration or other agreed mandate document) specifically 
tying Mr Ts investment to a 10% (or 15%) limit: the factsheet wasnt directly  linked to Mr Ts 
application and sets out a typical  asset  allocation.
Ref: DRN96612323I accepted that the adviser moved  to a new firm shortly after recommending  the portfolio. But 
between at least January  and March 2016, Gate  was providing an ongoing review service for 
which it would charge. Gate suggested that an adviser isnt responsible for monitoring the 
DFMs investment selections and had no control over the content or construction  of Mr Ts 
portfolio  even  where it collects an ongoing fee. I said that was mistaken. 
From a proper interpretation of the FSA and PFS guidance, Gate should have ensured that it 
did have oversight of what assets Mr T would initially be invested  into. And had adequate 
due diligence  been carried out, my view remained that he wouldnt have invested in Beaufort 
at all. (Notwithstanding what Id also already said about Mr Ts attitude  to risk and fund size 
not being suited to DFM with its attendant costs.)
 
Gate didnt agree. In summary, it said:
It was supplied with a username and password to access Beauforts  system where the 
attitude to risk questionnaire and suitability report could be uploaded. It expected us to 
obtain this information from Beauforts administrators.
Its not disputed that Gate undertook a risk assessment for Mr T, shown in its suitability 
report. So it was illogical to conclude it would have withheld this from Beaufort,  who 
would then have selected the appropriate  risk level for Mr Ts portfolio.
Owing  to the change  of advising firm, Gate  never  had access  to Mr Ts statement  
suggesting his risk rating was undefined. If it had, this would have been  queried.  
This is clear  evidence  of fraud  or gross negligence on Beauforts part, which  is 
supported by the charging of six individuals  with conspiracy to commit securities  fraud 
and money laundering  in 2018. The logical  conclusion, on the balance  of probabilities, 
was that Gate  provided adequate information  to Beaufort  and it ignored  this.
It was unable to carry out any meaningful  monitoring of Mr Ts portfolio, as it was only 
retained as his adviser until 29 March 2016.  The initial  sums  transferred from the DC 
schemes (£66,000 between 29 December 2015  and 7 January 2016) would have 
typically been retained in cash for 2-3 weeks before Beaufort started designing and 
constructing the portfolio  which in Gates experience took at least  three months.
Mr T actually  wrote  to the SIPP provider (Gaudi) on or around January  2016 to cancel 
Gates agency on the platform   so all subsequent information (including what  
happened to funds  from the DB scheme in April 2016) went  to the advisers new firm.
as  at March 2016, Mr Ts losses had not crystallised. His portfolio  was liquid. The 
decision to use Beaufort could have been reversed [by the advisers new firm]; and 
the existing  investmentscould  have been  moved in specie to another DFM so that 
any losses were  crystallised and there was opportunity to manage out any assets 
deemed adverse. Notably, the new advising firm would have received the statement 
from Beaufort that the portfolio  had an undefined risk profile.
Even if Gate breached  its duty of care to Mr T, its actions did not cause his losses.  
Holding Gate liable for 100%  of the losses wasnt a reasonable exercise of my powers.
Having regard to legal  principles on causation and loss, the actual value  of Mr Ts 
investments should  be assessed by reference to a suitable  proxy benchmark to 
calculate the present  value  of the Beaufort  portfolio,  had Beaufort  managed  it in 
accordance with Mr Ts medium attitude to risk. And Gates liability  for his losses 
should be limited to those  arising (if any) during  the period it was his adviser.
Mr T didnt  comment  further on my expanded findings. As both parties have now had the 
opportunity to comment, Ill make my final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96612324Most of the points  I would  have made in response to Gates  objections  to my provisional 
decision have already been  said in my letter of 21 September 2020, summarised above. Ive 
carefully considered  Gates response  to that letter, but it hasnt persuaded me to reach a 
different outcome.
In particular, Gate says that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to reach a decision to require it 
to pay 100% of Mr Ts loss. But Id like to remind the parties that in reaching a fair and 
reasonable decision Im required to take into account the law but also industry rules, 
guidance and standards of good practice.  That includes the guidance FSA and PFS have 
provided on advisers recommending DFM arrangements, as set out above. This is the key 
area in which  I think Gate was negligent in this case.  Had it taken better steps  to ensure 
Beaufort understood what its mandate to manage Mr Ts funds was, I might  have made  a 
different decision to only hold it responsible for part of Mr Ts total losses.
Im aware that Beaufort did have an online system which, at the very least, would have been 
used for clients advisers to obtain valuations and so on. Ive seen evidence of it being  used 
in this way. So Ive considered Gates  comments from the adviser  about  how the online 
system was intended to work with applications. 
In another case Ive seen, some six months  before this case was transacted,  a different 
advising firm not only emailed details  of its clients attitude to risk to Beaufort,  but it was also 
involved in selecting  which  model portfolio the client would invest in, which I consider better  
reflects good  industry practice. I say this as given  the extent of the advisers obligations  as 
set out both in industry rules and guidance, it was incumbent on the adviser to keep a record 
of the instructions given. So, seeking to rely on another partys  records  alone  (if an online 
portal was in place  at the time of the transaction) would have created risks for Gate that Im 
surprised it was willing to accept.
Furthermore Gate has only gone  as far as to suggest that it provided details of what it had 
assessed to Beaufort,  and then left it to Beaufort  to gauge what  mandate  it would then 
manage Mr Ts funds to. So even if it could  be shown  that Gate provided this information (via 
the online portal) to Beaufort, I wouldnt be satisfied that it had adequately discharged its 
responsibility such that it would be fair and reasonable to only hold it responsible  for part of 
Mr Ts overall  loss. 
As I indicated above, it would have been open to Gate to actually  select  the model  portfolio  
Mr T would invest  in (ie the medium risk or 4/7 on the scale), and ensure that the 
investment mandate was tied directly into what the factsheet for that model  portfolio said a 
typical allocation would  be: up to 15% in UK/global bonds. Otherwise, it could never  ensure 
that what Beaufort read from Gates suitability report, if provided, was mapped to the correct  
portfolio. I cant see that Gate did this. I think it unlikely we will obtain any further assistance  
from Beauforts administrators,  but for these reasons I also dont think it would make a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
In fact on reading the medium  risk portfolio factsheet again, I think  further  warning signs 
were already  there.  Whilst page  one gives the typical asset allocation from which a 
supposed 15% limit in corporate bonds can been assumed, the accompanying description 
makes clear  what  freedom Beaufort  had in selecting the bonds:
The fund will take an unconstrained approach to investing in high yielding corporate debt, 
investment grade debt, global equity and highly liquid money  market  instruments. The
management team will have the flexibility to switch between high yielding, investment 
grade and money market dependent upon the macro economic outlook.
Ref: DRN96612325There is clearly  a difference  between high yielding (non-investment  grade) debt and 
investment grade debt  the former  has high yields  in direct relation to the higher risk of 
default and therefore loss of the investors  capital. Already this description suggests Beaufort 
had the freedom to fill this typical  15% bond  allocation up with non-investment grade debt. 
But on page  two its then also clear that 15% is not a limit, as the following target asset  
allocation ranges are given:
Fixed Income 0%-60% Alternatives 0%-35%
Equity 0%-60% Multi  Asset 0%-15%
Commodities 0%-15% Money  Market & Cash 0%-100%
So the upper  limit for investing in potentially non-investment grade debt (which  would  appear  
to correspond to fixed income) was 60%.  I think  Gate  should  have anticipated  there would 
be a problem if Beaufort used its freedom to this extent for a medium  risk investor like Mr T. 
It wouldnt represent a medium risk, balanced, approach  to have a significant part of the 
portfolio invested  in high-yield (and therefore high-risk) debt. 
In the event, Beaufort seems to have stretched which  could have been a 60% limit to 100%. 
However Im satisfied that Mr T shouldnt have been in this portfolio at all, had it not been  for 
Gates failures in due diligence. Gate had already exposed Mr T to the possibility of loss in a 
portfolio it ought  to have realised went far wider than his attitude to risk  even  based  on the 
factsheet itself.
I understand the point that, separately, it can be argued that there  were  fraudulent  activities  
at Beaufort. But Gates actions in my view made  it easier for any alleged  fraud  to take place 
on Mr Ts portfolio precisely because it did not take reasonable steps to pin Beaufort down to 
a more precise mandate appropriate  to Mr Ts attitude to risk. And crucially (in view of Gates  
comments about the online portal) it didnt document in a durable medium what agreement  
was in place. 
Im therefore  not satisfied  that this case turns on whether  or not, on the balance of 
probabilities, a risk assessment form or the suitability report was provided to Beaufort  as 
Gate sugests. Whether it provided those nor not, Gate should in my view have done much 
more to ensure  the suitability of the DFM recommendation for its client.  It shouldnt be 
forgotten that Ive already concluded  in any event  that DFM itself wasnt  appropriate for Mr T, 
as it was unlikely  to benefit  him given his low risk appetite and the comparatively lower sum 
available from just transferring his DB pension. That provides  further grounds for me to say 
that Mr T wouldnt  have been  exposed to the possibility of wrongdoing at Beaufort  if Gate  
had suitably advised him.
The intervening action (or inaction) of the advisers new firm
Much of Gates response has focused  on its inability to effectively monitor what happened in 
the Beaufort portfolio after it received the transfers. I accept Gate is right to say it took 
Beaufort a few weeks to begin the process  of investing Mr Ts money  but that investment 
then happened  immediately after that (on 26 January 2016) into the three  unsecured 
debentures I mentioned in my provisional decision (plus Carduus Housing  plc, which  I 
neglected to mention). 
The reason  for this is that Beaufort didnt need  to design a portfolio for Mr T from scratch   it 
was using a model  portfolio; a point  which in earlier submissions Gate had acknowledged. 
And I remain of the view that if Gate had carried out adequate due diligence into where 
existing clients in the model portfolio  were  being invested, it would have established the 
presence of these, or similar,  investments  as they appear frequently  in other cases the 
ombudsman service has seen. Alternatively,  it should have been just as concerning  if Gate 
Ref: DRN96612326had been unable to find out what the existing investments  in the portfolio looked like  and 
theres certainly no evidence that it did find out.
I havent seen  the evidence  which Gate  says shows it was removed as agent from the Gaudi 
SIPP on or around January 2016  the lack of reference to a specific date suggests it isnt 
clear on this either. However  the reason these investments  were  made  was set in train much 
earlier, at a point  when there is no doubt  Gate was responsible for ensuring  the initial 
suitability of the portfolio being  recommended in line with the regulators rules, guidance and 
industry best practice. That the investments were made flows directly as a consequence of 
Gates poor advice  and lack of due diligence into how the portfolio would be managed.  
That is partly  why I think its fair and reasonable to hold Gate responsible  for the losses 
within the Beaufort portfolio. The other  part of the reasoning is that, contrary  to Gates  
suggestion, the portfolio is highly unlikely to have  been liquid immediately after these 
investments were made.  The same four investments have remained  in the portfolio to date 
and three  of them have been  written off with nil value. These  werent commonly  traded 
investments and in my view they had a limited  market.
The approach this service  normally takes with such investments is that its not reasonable to 
expect a subsequent adviser to be able to mitigate a loss by selling an illiquid investment, 
and I see no basis on which I could fairly or reasonably argue a different approach  here. 
Even though  the adviser is one and the same  person, at the time his new firm took over 
(which I understand  was March 2016), these four debenture  investments had already  been 
made  and their illiquidity would already have been an issue.
Ive considered what to do in respect  of the later receipt of about £100,000 from Mr Ts DB 
scheme, given Gates comments. When this sum was received on 4 April 2016 Gate is 
suggesting the advisers new firm had already taken  agency  over the SIPP  and Beaufort 
portfolio. But this transfer had also been  put in the pipeline when Gate  advised  Mr T to make  
it, and he signed  the suitability report to agree  on 9 November 2015. 
Crucially, weve checked with the DB scheme itself and the transfer only proceeded because  
the adviser (acting as Plutus Asset  Management   a style also used by Gate) signed the 
Appropriate Advice  Declaration (AAD) form for the purposes of the Pension Schemes Act 
2015 on 10 March  2016. This form confirmed to the scheme that he had permission to 
advise, and had advised, on this transfer.  About four weeks later,  the transfer value was paid 
into Mr Ts SIPP (after  I expect a recalculation was needed). 
Similar to the earlier transfers,  it then took a further three weeks for investments  to be made 
in NQ Minerals, ishares,  Pimco Fixed Income and Green & Smart. But the overriding point 
here is that according  to the FCA register, the adviser was authorised to act for Gate  when 
he signed the form that enabled the DB scheme  to release the funds on 10 March 2016. If 
he ought to have known (from  his other  company)  that inappropriate investments were  
already being  made into the Beaufort  portfolio  as Gate suggests  then he shouldnt  have  
signed this form.  
I know Gate has provided evidence on another case of the advisers resignation  letter to 
Plutus Group dated 9 February  2016. Although the letter says with immediate effect, there 
are also (undated) forms to resign  his FCA controlled functions at Gate,  which it appears 
from the FCA register either werent  submitted or processed. That doesnt seem  to be a 
mistake, given that the adviser  would have signed  the AAD form expecting the DB scheme 
to check the register   so he would have  known that his permissions were still current. 
Even though  there is often a delay  before the register reflects submitted documents,  this 
advisers status appears to have continued  (without  interruption) from being directly 
Ref: DRN96612327authorised through Gate into acting  as an appointed representative for Gate later in 2016. 
So his authorisation through Gate during 2016  overlaps with the period where  he was 
authorised through his new firm. 
It would appear more likely that the register would reflect a gap if the adviser first resigned 
from Gate in order to solely be authorised via his new firm, and then reapplied as Gates 
appointed representative. The very fact that the adviser continued as an appointed 
representative of Gate later on doesnt suggest that, despite his apparent  resignation, he left 
Gate on particularly  bad terms  or by extension, that it wasnt  reasonably  expected that he 
would be able to complete  business that he had initiated before  his resignation.  
Normally, when a client passes from one advising  firm to another  (unrelated) firm, their 
adviser also changes.  So the new adviser  wouldnt necessarily know what existing 
investments had been made without further  investigation. But here the adviser is the same,  
so Gate will want to argue that from the moment the advisers new firm took over agency  the 
advisers existing knowledge  became the responsibility of his new firm. So I understand the 
argument that the new firm may also have been  in a position  to stop further unsuitable  
investments being  made into similar unsecured debentures as had already been  used.
It is a matter for the FSCS how it considers any complaint against the advisers new firm. For 
the complaint  Im being asked to consider against  Gate, Im satisfied that the advisers error 
in supplying the paperwork (as Gate) to the DB scheme for the transfer to go ahead,  into a 
DFM proposition he ought reasonably to have already known was unsuitable for Mr T, is 
Gates responsibility. Had it not been  for those errors by the Gate adviser,  I consider the 
transfer wouldnt have  happened at all  and Mr T wouldnt have gone on to suffer the losses 
he suffered. So I continue to think its fair and reasonable for Gate  to meet  all of the losses 
Mr T has incurred in all of the transfers he made  to his SIPP. I therefore wont be changing 
the redress I proposed  in the provisional decision.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Gate Capital 
Group Ltd pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out in the fair compensation section  of my provisional decision. My 
decision is that Gate Capital Group Ltd must pay the amount produced by that calculation up 
to the maximum of £150,000  plus any interest  on the sum it pays here as set out in the fair 
compensation section of my provisional  decision.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Gate  Capital Group  Ltd pays  Mr T the balance plus any interest 
on the balance  as set out in the fair compensation section of my provisional  decision.
If Gate Capital Group Ltd does not pay the recommended  amount, then any assets that are 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr T. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from those assets together with the compensation paid by Gate Capital Group  Ltd 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out in the fair 
compensation section of my provisional  decision.
In that event Gate Capital Group  Ltd may request  an undertaking from Mr T that either he 
repays to Gate  Capital  Group Ltd any amount he may receive from the investment 
thereafter, or if possible transfers the investment to Gate at that point. Mr T should  be aware 
Ref: DRN96612328that any such amount  would be paid into his pension plan so he may have to realise  other 
assets in order  to meet the undertaking.
Given the possibility  that FSCS may award compensation to Mr T, Gate  Capital Group Ltd 
may also require Mr T to provide an undertaking to repay Gate any of the total compensation 
that he receives which exceeds the total losses that hes suffered, as calculated  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96612329Provisional decision of 29 July 2020
background
Mr T had a guaranteed transfer value  from his former employers defined  benefit (DB) 
pension scheme  which  had been produced in April 2015. He says he was approached by a 
cold caller who referred  him to Gate  in June 2015, when he completed  letters  of authority  for 
it to contact his existing pension providers.
It appears his former employers pension scheme then wrote to him with a new transfer 
value offer in July 2015. The total value of £94,952 included a 5% enhancement as an 
incentive to consider transferring. It would  expire  on 9 October 2015 and Mr T was invited to 
seek advice from a particular financial adviser  at the employers  expense. It appears Mr T 
decided to continue  with Gate  instead.
Gate carried out a fact find July 2015 which established that Mr Ts situation  was:
Aged  55 with two children who werent  financially  dependent
Receiving a widowers pension of £6,000 net per year
Employed for 5 years  in a role earning  £25,500 per year
Gate encouraged  him to join his then employers pension  scheme  but he didnt think  
it was worthwhile
Treated for prostate  cancer in July 2014
Renting the property he and one daughter  lived at, but was planning to move in with 
a friend.  He aimed to move overseas with the friend after retiring  at 60
Held £46,000 in cash (including cash ISAs) and £25,000 in shares
£5,000 was outstanding on credit cards 
Seeking an income of between £17-20,000 per year in retirement  
Updating his will which left 50% of his assets  to each of his children
In addition to the DB pension, Mr T had two defined contribution (DC) pensions  a personal 
pension and another occupational scheme.  Gate  issued two suitability reports covering the 
two types of pension, which Mr T signed together on 9 November 2015.  Both reports  said his 
diagnosis of prostate  cancer had focused  his attention on the death benefits provided  by his 
pension schemes. They  said in general he was looking  to maximise his benefits:
You would like to ensure  your retirement plans are reviewed. This is to provide you with
the comfort and reassurance of knowing that your pension investments plans are being
managed in line with your desires and also to consolidate your plans and place  them in an
environment where  you can take full advantage of the new flexibility  introduced  by the
recent Pension Freedom and Choice legislation when you are ready  to start taking your
benefits.
Whilst Mr Ts children  could receive the DC pension funds as a tax-free  sum on his death,  he 
was also interested  in allowing them to retain  the flexibility to inherit the fund as a pension  of 
their own (successor drawdown). And the DB pension would only allow  a spouse or 
dependant (of which there were none) to receive  benefits on Mr Ts death. The adviser noted 
that this was the most important consideration as [t]he benefits  represent a substantial  
portion of your benefits, but you are not reliant on them to provide  the majority of your 
income.
Gate assessed Mr Ts attitude  to risk as a capital growth investor, who would be 
comfortable to lose 20% of his investment in a 12 month period  it said you confirmed that 
you were happy to ride out any downturn  and could sustain this level of reduction due to 
Ref: DRN966123210poor performance, although it would obviously not be desirable. His capacity for loss was 
moderately adventurous and he was able to invest for a term of 10+ years, because at his 
expected retirement  in five years time he would be drawing income from an ongoing  
investment.
The DB pension:  Mr T had left the service of this employer  at age 25 in 1985, with 6.6 years 
service. About half the pension at leaving was Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) but this 
would form the vast majority of his pension at retirement age (65) because the non-GMP  
didnt revalue. The total pension at 65 would be £6,461 per year  it had a 60% spouses 
pension which Mr T wouldnt  be able to use.
Gate referred to the guaranteed revaluation of the GMP which  would be stopped  if he 
decided to transfer. It mentioned that the transfer  value didnt take into account  that the 
scheme was in deficit. It calculated that the critical yield,  or investment growth required  to 
achieve the same benefits at the DB scheme,  was 2.2% per year to age 60  not 65. A copy  
of the transfer  analysis  was apparently attached  to the suitability report but Gate  hasnt 
supplied us with this. Gate  said that had it not been  for the issue with death benefits,  
Deferring benefits  would  usually be considered the best option and tends to be our default 
position for Final  Salary Schemes.
Gate also considered  Mr T would  be able to use income drawdown to withdraw a 
sustainable level of income of £6,022pa from age 60 until the fund was depleted at age 95; 
based on a 4%pa net return  (I assume net of charges). This compared with the scheme 
pension of £6,461pa from age 65, and a normal life expectancy of 86. It went  on to say: 
Our expectation for an investor with your risk profile  is that a 6.05% average growth rate is 
realistically expected in the longer term. However,  in the 5 years you have  for this 
comparison, your expected growth rate is likely to be lower.
The personal pension:  This was invested in a with-profits fund and had a transfer value of 
about £10,000  confusingly Gate  referred  to the fund value of £8,200, as it appears  there  
was a bonus included in the transfer  value.  The reduction in yield due to charges was 
0.79%pa.
The DC occupational  pension: This had a transfer  value of £60,600  and was invested 
approximately 50/50 in Global and UK Equity funds. It allowed free switches  between 14 
funds. The reduction  in yield due to charges to the normal  retirement  age of 62 was only 
0.29%pa.
The two DC pensions together were  projected  to provide sustainable income  of £4,346pa 
from age 60 until the fund was fully depleted at age 95, again based  on a 4%pa  net return. 
So when taking  into account Mr Ts widowers  and state pensions and ability to take income 
from his ISAs, Gate thought there  was already a surplus of £6,267pa in his projected 
retirement income  before the benefits from the DB transfer were  even taken into account.
The proposed transfer destination:  A Gaudi  SIPP  investing in the Beaufort Securities 
Discretionary Fund  Management  (DFM)  Service. In addition to the DFM costs, this would 
incur an initial advice  charge of £4,915  for all transfers and an ongoing charge of 1%pa for 
ongoing advice  and servicing,  both payable to Gate. An illustration was attached to the 
report which indicated that the total charges for transferring and then managing  Mr Ts funds 
would reduce the overall growth by 1.9% per year up to retirement  at age 60. This included 
Beauforts administration fees, but doesnt  appear  to have included the potential costs  of 
buying and selling assets within the discretionary portfolio. 
Ref: DRN966123211Both reports discounted remaining in Mr Ts existing schemes  or switching to a stakeholder 
pension as, despite disclosing the lower  charges,  they didnt offer the flexibility  and superior  
death benefits Mr T required. DFM  was chosen  as Mr T would like a proportion of your 
portfolio not invested in equities,  but to still have  the capacity for good potential returns. At 
the same  time reducing your overall  portfolio volatility.
There is a Beaufort  brochure on Gates  file and which  appears  to have been provided to 
Mr T at the time. This reads more as a leaflet promoting the range of services Beaufort  
provided, than a description  of precisely how Mr Ts funds  would be invested. It set out that 
the main building blocks of Beauforts  portfolios were Exchange Traded Funds  (ETFs)  
these were described as liquid and low cost.  It included  a graph for a typical  asset 
allocation, which had nearly 50% invested  in fixed income assets.
Mr T signed an application form for a Gaudi SIPP utilising Beauforts DFM service the same 
day as he signed  the suitability reports. He made his two children the death  beneficiaries  of 
the SIPP. The three transfers  were paid into the SIPP as follows:
-DC occupational  scheme £55,921  received  29/12/2015 (an 8% decrease)
-Personal pension  £11,010 received 07/01/2016 (an 11% increase)
-DB scheme £100,608 received 04/04/2016 (a 6% increase)
Total adviser remuneration of £6,702  was paid, which corresponded to 4% of all the transfer 
values as written on the application form and not as per the suitability reports.  £160,459 
(most of the remainder) was placed  with Beaufort.
Problems with the portfolio
The initial investments made in Mr Ts portfolio  in January 2016 were  what  appear  to be the 
following debentures with maturity dates  from 2021-25:
-Hydrology  / Water Bonds PLC variable
-All Saints  Commercial  PLC 8%
-Aegis Power Bond (No 1) PLC 10%
At the end of March 2016 Mr Ts adviser at Gate moved to a different  advising firm and Mr T 
moved with him as a client. By December 2017 Mr Ts holdings  in the DFM  portfolio  
consisted of ten apparently high-risk unsecured bonds or debentures plus a small amount of 
cash, totalling £128,472.  The bonds were single-company investments in utilities,  housing  
and minerals. These  appear  to be start-up ventures many of which  have since gone into 
liquidation. It appears to bear little resemblance to the diversified portfolio of liquid ETFs 
suggested in the Beaufort literature.
Mr T started  to be bombarded with letters saying he was a creditor,  via his SIPP, of these 
companies. He originally complained by contacting his advisers new firm saying: I had 
expressed on so many  occasions  meetings  phone  calls that this is my pension  I need it as a 
draw down in 5 years please no risking on High Risk investment  that was my portfolio  no 
one up to now has explained who authorised not to follow  my portfolio and who has risked 
what was 166,000  of my pension.  
Beaufort subsequently wrote  to its investors about concerns identified  regarding the 
systems and controls and that we have agreed  with the FCA that it is desirable  in the 
interests of our customers for us to cease  our DFM business. There  had been allegations of 
fraud concerning the conduct  of Beauforts employees and the UK regulator (the Financial 
Conduct Authority) later ordered its assets  be frozen in March 2018.
Ref: DRN966123212Mr T told our service that the fund selection within  Beauforts discretionary fund 
management (DFM) portfolio didnt match the attitude to risk which  hed agreed with Gate.  
We raised a complaint with Beaufort, to which its response was that it did not believe Mr T 
was fully informed  by Gate of the risks associated with Beaufort  products. We never  
investigated that complaint as it was subsequently  referred to the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) when Beaufort ceased trading.
The complaint against Gate
Mr T mentioned Gate as part of this complaint and told us that he was unhappy with the 
advice to put all his pensions under Beauforts  management. As he hadnt yet complained to 
Gate, we invited it to respond. It appears that Gate  met Mr T in February 2018 to discuss  his 
complaint at which point  concerns about its advice to transfer out of his DB pension were  
then also raised. Gate issued a final response letter commenting as follows:
-Mr T had agreed to be treated as a capital growth investor with a moderately  
adventurous attitude to risk.
-The DB transfer was in his best interest because he was a widower  and the pension 
didnt provide benefits for his children. Also the scheme was in deficit and hadnt 
provided discretionary increases  for five years.
-The Gate adviser didnt select the investments in Mr Ts portfolio but it was 
concerned they were  illiquid and contrary to what Beaufort  set out in its prospectus.
-It questioned  why that adviser, now at a new firm, hadnt  carried out checks  on 
Beauforts investments  at the first year review.
Mr T told us that he had no part in choosing who the fund manager  would be, and at no point 
was he asked or shown  performance related documents (on the actual Beaufort portfolio he 
would be in). He confirmed in April 2018  that he did want to pursue the complaint against 
Gate.
Gate says that its adviser would have stated  the risk profile  which Beaufort was meant  to 
adhere to, when it sent in the application form. It adds that Beaufort was able to carry out 
this task because  it had records of Gates  risk profile definitions.  (However it appears the 
SIPP application form was sent to Gaudi  SIPP, and does not include any risk information.)
The pre-sales illustration  Mr T was given was based  on the Beaufort Total Return  Model 
Portfolio. Gate says this would  have  been  produced in the advisers office using  the 
Gaudi/Beaufort on-line system. And There would have been a selection of the Beaufort 
Total Return Model Portfolio by Beaufort  DFM, not by PlutusGroup. 
Our investigators view
One of our investigators  concluded that Gate shouldnt have advised Mr T to transfer any of 
his pensions into the SIPP or DFM, and that he would have followed that advice had it been 
given. She said:
-Transferring guaranteed  benefits  from a DB scheme to a SIPP exposed Mr Ts 
pension benefits  to significant  risk, which he wasnt reasonably prepared  to take.
-He didnt have  the capacity to accept any risk either, with only five years  to go before 
his intended retirement age.
-Neither his direct  shareholdings  nor funds selected in his DC pensions made him an 
experienced investor such that he would be classed as moderately adventurous.
Ref: DRN966123213-Mr T wasnt yet flexibly accessing his benefits,  so it appeared there wasnt a 
compelling reason  for transfer other  than facilitating the DFM  portfolio,  which  was an 
unsuitable recommendation bearing in mind  his lower attitude  to risk.
-In reaching this conclusion she acknowledged the concerns about death  benefits, but 
considered Mr T was likely relying  on the funds to provide income for himself in 
retirement and that should have been the primary consideration.
-Compensation should be based on the notional  value  of the three  previous pensions  
had they not moved  to the SIPP. But to reflect the fact that Beaufort had invested in 
assets which didnt  correspond to the risk profile she believed it was given,  a 
benchmark should be used as a proxy for the present value of the Beaufort portfolio.
-That benchmark would be the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return  index, 
with any remaining cash amount actually left in Mr Ts SIPP  added  to the benchmark 
figure giving  the total present value of the SIPP for use in the calculation.
-Mr T to be paid £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by Gates  advice.
By this point  Mr T had appointed a claims  management company (CMC).  We first heard 
from them after Mr T had received the adjudicators  view and its not apparent  that they had 
been involved in our investigation prior to this point.
 
Gate argued that we should  obtain  a copy of the attitude to risk declaration which  its adviser 
sent to Beaufort  and full information on how Beaufort applied  the answers to its risk mapping 
process. Mr T refused  permission for Beauforts  administrators to provide Gate with this 
information, as he considered it should have the information already. 
The adjudicator didnt consider this affected the outcome of the complaint against Gate. So 
as she wasnt persuaded to change her opinion she referred her complaint  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
The FSCS informed  Mr T in May 2019 that it was unable to consider his claim against 
Beaufort until the outcome of the Financial Ombudsman Services investigation into his Gate 
complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the advice  to transfer the DB pension suitable?
When reviewing his pensions, Gate asked Mr T to fill in a questionnaire which in my view 
asks somewhat leading questions  to which most  people would answer  yes. For example 
wanting flexibility, control, the best death benefits,  the highest growth, wanting better service 
than his current plans  provided, and not wanting to suffer penalties when retiring early.
There was no context  offered for these comments  in terms of the guarantees the DB 
scheme offered  (which couldnt  directly  be compared  with an investment that grew  in value); 
what flexibility or control Mr T actually required at that time;  or the fact that any reduction for 
retiring early under the DB scheme  (if this was even possible, as Ill later discuss) would 
generally provide  benefits over a longer term that were of equivalent overall  value.
There were some questions specifically about the DB scheme,  which pitted keeping the 
guarantees against having control over the investment  for potentially superior performance.  
Neither of these was ticked, whereas questions about death benefits were   suggesting that 
Ref: DRN966123214the driver  for the transfer was not improved performance but passing the funds  on to Mr Ts 
children. The same form confirmed that Mr T didnt have any other life assurance.  
When assessing Mr Ts risk profile in relation to a DB transfer, Gate needed  to consider not 
only Mr Ts attitude to risk, but also his capacity to take risk. He was stated  as being able to 
tolerate between a 12-23% drop in the value of his investment over 12 months, which were 
the third and fourth of five categories of increasing risk. Gate assessed as him being of 
moderately adventurous outlook (the fourth  of five categories). It concluded with the 
comment would like to maximise his potential to improve his retirement income. Knows  he 
must take some risks.
I dont agree with this assessment which, in any case, conflicts with Gates other  
assessment that the DB scheme income was  effectively  surplus to his requirements. An 
investors attitude to risk is their emotional  response to experiencing volatility in their funds.  
They should  not be encouraged to take more  risk than they are comfortable  with, simply to 
give the potential  to get better returns  because  that equally  brings  the potential to get 
worse returns.
Having considered that about a third of Mr Ts existing assets were in shares, and his 
existing DC schemes were spread across with-profits funds, UK and international shares, Im 
satisfied that he would  have been prepared to take some risk. However Im not persuaded 
this would have  been over 3/5 on Gates  scale.
However its Mr Ts capacity to take risk that was particularly relevant to this DB transfer. 
Because he was already receiving a widowers  pension, Gate calculated that his DC 
arrangements would already provide him with more income than he needed. So its view at 
the time seems to have been that he easily had the capacity to risk the DB pension.  I dont  
think thats a reasonable way to view Mr Ts situation.
Firstly, the pensions were taken out to provide income in retirement  and I dont think  Mr T 
should have been discouraged from enjoying a lifestyle  which  made use of that income.  As it 
wasnt certain that Mr T would end up having a cheaper lifestyle  abroad, the suitability report  
suggests that he was looking for up to £20,000 per year in retirement   which  didnt in my 
view leave him with anything like the cushion in his retirement planning  that Gate suggests. 
Secondly, to the extent that he might not choose to draw on all his pensions at the same  
time, it would have made sense for him to be able to rely on some benefits which were 
guaranteed  as a significant  part of his other pensions were not. And those other  pensions  
already provided  a return of fund on his death  which his children could benefit  from,  whereas  
the DB pension did not.
However I agree this would still have been a finely-balanced decision because of:
-Mr T already having guaranteed income from his widowers pension (in addition to 
the state pension)
-The critical yield for transferring the DB pension only being 2.2% per year
We dont have a copy of the transfer  analysis to see how the 2.2%  per year was calculated,  
but it was said to be based on a term to age 60. However the majority of Mr Ts pension 
under the DB scheme comprised a GMP liability which had to be met at age 65  only £224 
of the £6,438 pension  at that age would not be GMP. As the scheme wouldnt permit early  
retirement unless the actuarially reduced  pension would pay at least  the GMP, I have some 
doubt about this critical  yield figure  and we dont have a figure to age 65.
Ref: DRN966123215I would expect the critical yield to be lower  than usual, both on account  of Mr T being  a 
widower without use for spouses benefits, and the enhancement on the transfer value. But 
on the basis that Mr T did transfer, and then took benefits at age 60 as outlined in the 
advice, he wouldnt have  a long enough  investment term to warrant exposing  much of the 
transfer value  to the stock market. And the impact  of charges under the SIPP and DFM 
portfolio (particularly  as Gate appears to have charged more than it said) would in my view 
wipe out all the growth  it was reasonable to expect over such  a short  term.
The illustration Gate obtained for the SIPP wasnt relevant to Mr Ts situation because the 
annuity rates  included  a 50% spouses  pension. But based on a standard  single-life annuity 
rate for a 60-year old in November 2015 of about  5%, a transfer  value which had barely  
grown up to age 60 would provide Mr T with a level annuity of about  £5,000  per year.  Whilst 
Mr T would have received  five years more income than if he retired  from the scheme  at age 
65, the increases on the scheme pension of £6,438 per year would  also have become very 
valuable in the later years  of Mr Ts retirement.
Mr T may have been able to invest the transfer to age 65 and take moderate  risk to achieve 
growth of say 4% per year  the discount rate being  published by the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service for loss assessment calculations at that time was 4.1% for example. But with the 
ongoing charges Gate was proposing to take combined with the cost of buying and selling in 
the Beaufort portfolio, Mr T again was perhaps  unlikely to see much more  of a return  than 
1%pa. I dont think the 4%pa net return Gate  referred to in its analysis was realistic given 
Mr Ts attitude  to risk. His transfer value might have  grown to about £111,000 as a result,  
and he could potentially  have bought a level single-life annuity of about the same starting 
amount as the DB pension  (although there would be no further annual increases).
Im not persuaded in either case that there was likely to be much improvement in overall  
terms over Mr Ts retirement on the £6,438pa  plus increases  the scheme would have 
provided, and in my view this was the limit of Mr Ts risk tolerance.  However there  is an 
argument that the transfer did provide Mr T with the flexibility to:
-Take benefits from age 60 (its unlikely the scheme would have permitted this), and 
receive more of them at a time when he might  have been more confident about being 
able to enjoy them.
-Designate the fund to be passed on to his children rather  than being lost in the event 
of his early passing.
-Potentially buy an enhanced annuity  on the open market  if he still wanted part of his 
income to be secure and his past health  issues qualified  him for this.
Mr T had been treated  for prostate cancer  about one year earlier.  Its unlikely  he could have 
been completely  sure about the impact of this on his long-term  health,  and it was noted at 
the time that this had led him to be concerned about  death  benefits. Its also likely  to have 
made it more difficult for Mr T to get competitive quotes for life insurance. And the fact that 
an enhancement was being made to the DB transfer value at that time, made it more likely  
that future  transfer  values might be lower.
In effect Mr T was exchanging the future increases on the DB pension for greater  flexibility in 
how he or his dependants  could use the funds.  It doesnt seem  to be in dispute that Mr T 
was concerned about providing for his children at the time he received the advice.  Whilst 
Mr T had £70,000 of DC funds that his children would already inherit on his passing, Im 
inclined to say on balance  that the DB pension transfer wasnt  unsuitable given the evident  
concerns he had about the waste of spouses  benefits under the DB pension.
Ref: DRN966123216Was the advice  to transfer the DC pensions suitable?
As Ive set out above, the reduction in yield due to charges on the two DC plans, particularly 
the occupational scheme,  was considerably lower than the SIPP  incorporating DFM  and 
almost impossible to replicate in a private arrangement. 
Against this backdrop, I dont  think Gate has demonstrated how Mr T would actually benefit 
from transferring the DC pensions arrangement  overall  as even before Beaufort  took its 
charges he would already need to achieve  more growth in the SIPP  just to stand still in 
relation to his DC schemes. 
Gate also talked  to Mr T about successor drawdown. I can see the attraction of this 
arrangement given he was a widower.  But at the same time,  his existing DC pensions could 
be inherited as tax-free lump sums  if he died before age 75, which gave his children the 
most flexibility. So a decision to transfer to a plan that allowed successor drawdown was 
again, in my view,  a forward  sale of a feature Mr T didnt yet need. The matter could of 
course have been  revisited when Mr T was nearer  to 75 and remained concerned about 
succession planning.
I consider one of the primary considerations for an investor in Mr Ts position was ensuring 
that his funds were  invested cost-effectively. That could not have come much better than an 
employers scheme with charges of less than 0.3%pa which spread Mr Ts investments 
across UK and global equities.  And in fact his smaller holding in a with-profits fund which 
was also not an expensive plan, provided  useful further diversification.  So in conclusion,  I 
consider the advice to transfer Mr Ts DC pensions  was unsuitable.
Should Mr T have been recommended  to put any of his funds into DFM?
I intend to conclude that the transfer of the DC pensions was unsuitable, but transferring the 
DB pension  wasnt  unsuitable in Mr Ts particular circumstances. That means he would have 
had about £100,000 to invest in a SIPP or other  plan. 
Whilst Mr T arguably  had an up to medium attitude  to risk overall, the risk he could take on 
his former  DB pension  was in my view limited  by two things. Firstly,  the time he had to invest 
(it was possible  hed draw on this fund,  needing to access a 25% tax-free cash sum, within 
five years). And secondly as hed relinquished  the guarantees of the DB scheme,  the need 
to replicate some more  security with part of his overall pension provision.
On balance Im not satisfied that a recommendation to use DFM was warranted here. In 
effect Mr T neither had the fund size nor tolerance  for risk which, when taken together, are 
usually the drivers for the added benefits  of diversification and engagement between  an 
investor and their DFM.
 
Gate hasnt been able to demonstrate how it selected Beaufort as the DFM over the range of 
other DFMs  in the market   some of which I think would have been cheaper than Beaufort, 
and many of which  would have had risk-rated  portfolios established long before Beauforts 
(which I understand  had no past performance  to refer to). In fact, Mr T already seems to 
have been cold-called with specific investments in mind before he was referred to Gate, 
which Im also concerned about  given that theres also no evidence of what instructions the 
adviser actually gave to Beaufort to manage  Mr Ts funds. 
Gate says it has access to the advisers emails and paper files, but is only able to assert that 
the adviser would  have  told Beaufort what attitude to risk to use, and that Beaufort would 
have known how to map Gates  scores to its DFM portfolios. No actual evidence  has been  
Ref: DRN966123217provided for this. I agree with Gates request to see if Beauforts administrators can provide 
this, and weve obtained Mr Ts agreement to do that. We asked for details of all attitude  to 
risk information shared  between Gate  and Beaufort.  This turned up nothing  apart  from a 
standard account opening instruction between Gaudi and Beaufort. 
The only evidence of what Mr T might  have been  invested in is a generic leaflet about  
Beauforts services, and the mention  of a total return model portfolio on the pre-sales 
illustration. As Ive mentioned,  the application forms dont mention Mr Ts attitude to risk or 
select a particular model portfolio. I dont consider that the pre-sales evidence  particularly 
as its not clear Beaufort would have taken this an instruction of where  to invest Mr Ts funds 
 is persuasive of what investments Beaufort was meant to make. 
Mr T told us that he was cold called shortly  after pension  freedoms were announced in April 
2015, and informed about investments which would offer him a better return.  Whilst he cant  
remember the names of those investments,  I cant rule out that they might  have been 
mentioned as part of the handover between the unregulated  introducer  and Gates  adviser. 
Even if Im wrong on that, its concerning that Gate  makes no mention in its suitability report  
of the typical assets in which Mr T would be invested. It simply says Beaufort Securities 
Discretionary Fund  Management  Service and refers  Mr T to an Appendix 3. I assume this is 
the generic leaflet Ive already discussed,  as neither Mr T nor his representative can find any 
other documentation.
As part of his duty of care to Mr T and the requirement to ensure his advice was suitable 
under COBS 9.2 I would  have expected the adviser to ensure he clearly stated to Beaufort 
what Mr Ts attitude to risk was  and ensured he (the adviser) was familiar with the typical  
asset mix or model portfolio that Beaufort  would use for that attitude to risk. No information 
has been provided as to what  attitude  to risk a total return model portfolio involved, or how 
Gate communicated Mr Ts attitude to risk to Gate. I note that the Beaufort  annual statement 
Mr T has provided  has undefined  next to both the risk profile and investment objective, 
which supports the fact that Beauforts  administrators  have been unable to confirm anything 
different to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
Im also mindful that Gate was going to be taking an ongoing fee for looking after Mr Ts 
investment. I would expect the adviser  to have checked that the portfolio Mr T went  into was 
broadly what he expected  it to be, as the adviser  had the overarching  duty to ensure that the 
entire pension  transfer was suitable  under COBS 9.2. In my view the initial  investments into 
three high-risk debentures should  have caused  immediate  concern, and this was two months  
before the adviser transferred Mr Ts custom to his new firm. Im not persuaded that the 
nomination of a DFM absolved Gate of all responsibility to oversee this process,  given its 
suitability obligations  and the clients best interests  rule (COBS 2.1.1).
I understand why Gate will also be concerned as to why the adviser apparently did little 
about the investments in Mr Ts portfolio after he moved firms.  Theres obviously a similarity 
here with the little attention paid to the situation whilst he was with Gate. And I also 
recognise that it can be argued Beauforts  actions may have  also separately caused some  of 
the overall loss Mr T suffered. So Ive considered  whether I should apportion only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to Gate.
In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole loss against  Gate.  
The transfer of Mr Ts business  to the advisers new firm doesnt  alter the fact that Gate  
alone (as the advising firm at the time) could have intervened to prevent the losses  Mr T has 
experienced. And it placed Mr T in the DFM portfolio in the first place when I dont consider 
this would, in respect  of a £100,000 DB transfer, have been likely to benefit Mr T even if it 
had been managed appropriately. Im satisfied  that in most  respects  other than the DB 
Ref: DRN966123218transfer, Gate acted  with a complete disregard for Mr Ts interests, in failing to ensure that 
Mr Ts funds  were  going to be suitably  managed  by Beaufort to an agreed attitude to risk. 
As Ive said above,  the complaint about  Beaufort  is now with the FSCS (and if the FSCS is 
considering a complaint about  the advisers second firm, that is also in FSCS default).  So Im 
unable to consider  complaints about either  of these  firms. However  the advisers second firm 
continues to be in administration and if Gate  considers that firm could separately be held 
responsible for some  of the compensation, I consider its appropriate for it to explore its 
options to pursue that matter with the firm directly. 
As a scheme of last resort  its possible the FSCS  wont make a payment to Mr T if a third 
party could also be held liable. This means an apportionment of only part of Mr Ts losses  to 
Gate could leave Mr T out of pocket. Given that Mr T wouldnt have lost out at all but for 
Gates failings  in this case, I dont think that would be a fair outcome. So overall Im satisfied 
that holding Gate responsible for all of Mr Ts investment losses  (after  the transfer out of the 
DB scheme) represents fair compensation in this case.
What compensation  the FSCS  may decide  to pay is a matter for the FSCS. I also 
understand that if it were to make  any awards to Mr T it has the ability  to seek  to recover 
compensation from other parties that was related to that claim. So I dont think Mr T would 
benefit from double  recovery; particularly if it turns out Mr Ts compensation from Gate has 
been limited by the maximum  binding compensation I can award  of £150,000 and Gate  
doesnt follow any recommendation  I make  for the balance.
However in my award  Im going  to allow for the possibility that FSCS both pays  Mr T 
compensation which takes him over the total loss hes suffered, and doesnt seek to recover  
this from Gate. Gate may ask Mr T to provide an undertaking to repay Gate any of the total 
compensation that he receives which exceeds  the total losses  that hes suffered, as 
calculated below.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr T should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr T would still have transferred  his DB pension. Ive considered whether he could 
have transferred it into his DC occupational pension. But taking into account  the uncertainty  
over his exact retirement age and whether hed need to take all his benefits at the same 
time, I think retaining some  of the flexibility of having  several pots would have been useful to 
him. However Im not persuaded that a SIPP or investment into a DFM was necessary for 
these funds, or provided any additional  benefit  taking  into account the charges levied.
I further think that Mr T would most likely have left his other two pensions  where  they were,  
although potentially  in respect  of the DC occupational pension it would have been time to 
start considering whether  some of it should have  started to be moved into safer investments 
given the proximity to his retirement date  if a lifestyling option to do this wasnt 
automatically operating.
Ive taken into account that Mr T would not reasonably  have wanted  to put the transfer value 
of his DB pension at significant risk, and this opportunity to lower risk in his other 
occupational pension. Im also aware  of his comments (after the event) that he wouldnt  
have wanted to take risks. Its not possible to say precisely how he would have invested, but 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ts circumstances 
and objectives  at that time.
Ref: DRN966123219To compensate Mr T fairly, Gate must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ts investment in the SIPP  with that of the 
benchmark shown.  If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. Gate must  add interest to that loss as set out below.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Gaudi  SIPPstill 
existsfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return  
Index; for the other 
half: average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of each 
transfer into 
the SIPPdate of 
my final 
decision8% simple  p.a. 
from date of final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of Gates 
receipt  of Mr Ts 
acceptance)
If there is a loss, Gate should pay into Mr Ts pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation  and any interest.  The amount  paid should allow for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Gate is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ts pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
I consider Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so 
this reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax (20%). However, as Mr T 
would have been able to take 25% of his pension as a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation  meaning the overall 
reduction to be applied is 15%.
Pay Mr T £300 for distress and inconvenience in respect of the disruption it caused  to 
his retirement planning, including the two unnecessary transfers from Friends  Life 
and his other employers DC scheme.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gate  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much  has been  taken off. Gate  should  give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Actual value: This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where some 
of the assets are illiquid  (meaning they could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in 
this case. Gate  should take ownership of any such assets by paying a commercial  value  
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
before the adjustment for tax, and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN966123220If Gate is unable  to purchase  any such investments  their actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of calculation. Gate  may require that Mr T provides an undertaking to 
pay Gate any amount  he may receive from those assets in the future. That undertaking must  
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Gate will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value: This is what the investment would have  been worth  at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
As Gate  provided  suitable advice for Mr T to transfer his DB pension, I accept that it should 
be entitled to take into account  the portion of the original initial fee it said it would charge 
(which appears to be 3%), on the DB transfer value alone. It can do this by deducting 3% of 
the DB transfer  value before it is input as one of the three starting  transfer amounts making 
up the fair value.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Gate  should  
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gate totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
For all the reasons Ive explained above,  I consider  that in his overall circumstances 
Mr T wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index is made  up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
I consider that Mr Ts risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr T could have obtained  from investments suited to 
his objective and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN9661232