K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim to replace three sofas under the 
terms of his home insurance  policy. Hes also unhappy about the way the claim has been 
handled. 
background
In early 2018 Mr A notified Covea of a claim he wanted to make on his home insurance 
policy regarding damage to three sofas.  
Covea arranged for a third party to attend  Mr As home that he shares with his wife, Mrs A, 
to inspect the sofas. That third party cancelled the appointment at short  notice. Covea sent 
flowers as an apology  for this as Mrs A had taken a day off work.  It arranged for a desktop  
analysis to be done and asked Mr A to send in three  photos. That inspection concluded that 
the damage to the sofas was a result of wear and tear.
Covea then instructed  another  company to visit Mr and Mrs As home to undertake a further 
review. After inspecting the sofas,  that company also reported that the damage was caused 
by wear and tear. 
Mr A was unhappy with those reports. He and Mrs A obtained an opinion  from the store they 
bought the sofas from. The store manager  and upholster concluded  something  mustve been 
in contact with the fabric  which  had caused  discolouration in places. They  didnt think  the 
damage had been  caused by wear and tear.
In May 2018, Covea  apologised  for initially concluding that the damage wouldnt be covered 
under the policy  due to wear and tear. It accepted this was the wrong decision. It agreed  to 
send a second bunch of flowers to Mrs A. It also instructed a further  company to inspect the 
sofas and attempt to professionally clean the marks on the sofas. That company reported 
that it had tested the affected areas and the fabric  dye had been removed. It wasnt  able to 
clean them.
Upon receipt of that report, Covea instructed a specialist restorer to review  the photos  of the 
sofas. That company  concluded it could restore the sofas and gave Covea a quote to do so.
Covea offered to pay for the work  needed  to restore the sofas  or alternatively pay Mr A a 
cash settlement equivalent  to the amount it wouldve cost Covea to do so. That offer was 
rejected. 
Mr A wanted  Covea to replace all three  sofas. He was also unhappy with the way Covea  
handled the claim including: the length of time it had taken, various delays, being given 
inconsistent information  and unnecessary time spent by Mrs A communicating  with Covea.
Covea accepted that its service had, at times, not been as good  as it shouldve been.  It 
initially offered Mr A £150 compensation  for that. But it said its offer to pay for the restoration 
of the three sofas is in line with the policy terms, and fair. 
Our investigator said Covea didnt  need to do anything more.  So he didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. Mr A didnt  agree. 
Ref: DRN94198252Shortly after our investigator  provided his view on the complaint  and before the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision - Mrs A, on behalf of Mr A, agreed  with Covea to settle the 
claim made under his policy  for a cash payment  of £2,750. 
Mrs A has since said that figure  doesnt fully cover the replacement  costs of all three  sofas 
and doesnt sufficiently compensate for all the distress and inconvenience caused. So I need 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied Covea 
doesnt need to do anything more.
February  May 2018:
Everyone agrees  Covea  shouldve agreed to cover the damage  caused to the sofas as 
accidental damage  under the policy earlier than it did (rather than maintain it was due to 
wear and tear). Covea also accepts that the service  Mr A received  couldve been better 
when handling  this claim. 
I can see that this particularly impacted Mrs A because she was the one who spent time 
communicating with Covea and I can hear how frustrated and upset she becomes  during 
certain calls. She also says that she had to take time off work  and the entire experience 
caused her unnecessary stress at a time when  she wasnt well and was receiving medical 
attention. She says this, in turn, affected her entire family. 
I appreciate that this wouldve  been difficult for Mrs A and I can understand her frustration. 
But she isnt the policyholder  Mr A is. And he is the person who has brought this complaint 
to us. Under our rules, I can only award compensation to him. That can include 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  hes suffered because  of the way in which  
Covea handled  his claim  particularly prior to May 2018 when Covea (it accepts 
unreasonably) maintained that the damage was caused by wear  and tear. 
I accept that the distress,  worry and frustration  experienced by Mrs A when dealing with the 
claim, as well as the time she spent, wouldve impacted Mr A. I also accept that he, too, 
wouldve experienced some inconvenience  and frustration by Mrs A being told different 
things. But I think Coveas  offer to pay him £150  is fair and reasonable to compensate him 
for that in the circumstances. 
When making this finding, I also note Covea agreed  to waive  the excess of £100 thats 
normally applied when  a claim of this type is made  under  the policy  which it didnt  need  to 
do.
from May 2018:
Subject to the other  terms of the policy, Covea can decide whether to settle  a claim by 
repairing, replacing or by making a cash payment in respect of the damaged  sofas. 
The policy also says if Covea offers to repair or replace any contents this will be through its 
network of suppliers. But if it agrees  to pay cash,  then the payment wont exceed the amount 
it wouldve  paid to those  suppliers.
Ref: DRN94198253Once Covea agreed  that the damage  to the sofas  was covered under the policy, I dont think  
its decision to try and clean - and then subsequently  restore - the damaged  parts of the sofa 
is unreasonable. Ive listened to a call between a representative of Covea and Mrs A in 
mid-May 2018. At that point, shes happy for Covea to instruct a further company to inspect 
the sofas and see if they can be restored.
Although she says that the company who inspected the sofas  shortly  after that call took 
place said it couldnt  repair  them,  it looks  Covea  only instructed that company  to inspect the 
sofas and if it was possible,  to clean them. As that company was unable  to clean the sofas, I 
dont think Covea acted  unreasonably by then instructing a specialist restoration company to 
review the photos  of the damage  to see whether it, in its expert opinion, would be able to 
repair the sofas. Having researched that company, it looks like its well qualified to give that 
opinion. 
Its possible that the representatives  of the other companies who inspected the sofas 
mightve said to Mrs A that they couldnt be repaired. But it doesnt  look like they were 
instructed by Covea  to provide any opinion  on that specific  issue.
So, all in all, I think Covea  acted  fairly  by relying on the opinion  it received. Im satisfied  that 
it reasonably chose not to replace the sofas at that point and instead, exercised its discretion 
to pay for the sofas to be repaired - or pay Mr A the cash equivalent, if he preferred.
Covea has now agreed to pay Mr A £2,750 in settlement of his claim which   even taking 
into account the sum of £150  that Covea agreed to pay Mr A for distress and inconvenience  
-  is significantly more  than its original offer to pay for the sofas to be repaired, or pay the 
cash equivalent to Mr A.
So, it follows  given my findings above,  that I consider that increased offer to be fair and 
reasonable. And as such, Covea doesnt need to do anything more.
my final decision
Covea Insurance  Plc doesnt need to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9419825