K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint concerns the recommendation by Thinc Group Limited  of a term 
assurance policy to protect a re-mortgage.   
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2109, a copy  of which  is attached 
and forms parts of this final decision. In that decision I explained why I thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
In brief,  I acknowledged  that the recommended  cover wasnt ideal, inasmuch as it wasnt  the 
default recommendation for a repayment mortgage.  And it meant there  was a shortfall in 
cover towards the end of the mortgage term. But looking at the recommendation objectively 
in light of the circumstances at the time, while the recommendation  may not have been 
perfect, I didnt think it was sufficiently wide of the mark for me to make a finding that it was 
unsuitable.
Thinc responded to my provisional  decision  to confirm  that it had nothing  further  to add. 
Mrs P responded in detail to express her disappointment. She clarified that she hadnt  
thought that the cover  was a requirement  of the mortgage; rather,  shed been  misled into 
thinking it wasnt possible to use other  life cover  to protect the mortgage. She also 
questioned why the recommended policy hadnt  been on a level term basis, to match the 
existing policy. Much of her response  was in the context of how Thinc may have failed to 
apply Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles, and also the outcome of the FCAs 
Decision Notice against Thinc of 2008  (which was specifically in relation to its selling of sub-
prime mortgages).
Mrs P also raised concerns about  the lack expenditure information  collected by Thinc  and 
whether full consideration had been  given to the consolidation of existing debt.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
Its clear that Mrs P has strong feelings  about  Thincs actions. Shes provided detailed 
submissions to support  her and Mr Ps complaint, and also in response to my provisional 
decision, all of which Ive read and considered in their entirety.  
However, I trust she wont take the fact that my findings focus  on what  I consider to be the 
central issues  and that theyre expressed in less detail  as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision  isnt to address every point raised  in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, I accept that the recommendation made to her and 
Mr P wasnt  ideal. And further,  that it created a shortfall in cover.  So I can see how,  on the 
face of it, it could be concluded  that Thinc acted  incorrectly and should therefore be required 
to compensate Mr and Mrs P. 
Ref: DRN91965402But as I said in my provisional decision, in the specific circumstances of the 
recommendation, I dont  think  it was so unsuitable as to be able to conclude  that it was 
wrong. 
I note, and accept, what  Mrs P has said about her not in fact claiming that she was misled  
into thinking that she had to take the policy.  And in respect of whether the recommended 
policy shouldve been on a level term basis rather than decreasing,  I can see how this would 
have meant  that there wouldnt have been a shortfall   as for the last five years of the 
mortgage term it wouldve  continued to provide £105,000 of cover. But it would also have  
been more expensive and wouldve resulted in Mr and Mrs P being over insured, particularly 
given that they proceeded to take out further life cover subsequent to taking out the 
mortgage. 
And I think this goes to show  that there  wasnt really  a perfect solution. Starting a new 
decreasing term policy  for the full amount of £204,000 over 25 years was certainly  an 
alternative. But it may too have been more expensive, given Mr Ps change in his health. I 
accept this wasnt a particularly serious change, but it nevertheless resulted in the premiums 
for the new policy being weighted, so that would  have  been the case for any other  new,  
replacement policy.  
In respect of the issues concerning the details of expenditure collected  by the adviser  and 
the consideration given to debt consolidation, these are really  issues  that impacted on the 
mortgage recommendation  rather  than the associated life cover. If Mrs P has concerns 
about the suitability of the lending she would have  to raise these separately  with Thinc.
In summary,  I accept this is a finely balanced  matter, particularly in light of the absence of a 
clearly documented  rationale for the recommendation from the time of the advice. But, in all 
the circumstances, I remain of the view that Thincs recommendation  was broadly suitable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91965403COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  concerns the recommendation by Thinc Group Limited  of a term assurance 
policy to protect  a re-mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs P re-mortgaged  in 2007. They arranged to increase their existing borrowing to £204,000 
through Thinc and at the same the adviser also made a recommendation  for life cover. Mr and Mrs P 
already had a level term life and critical  illness cover (CIC) policy in place  started  in association  with 
their original mortgage  that provided £108,000 of cover. The adviser recommended they take out an 
additional life and CIC decreasing term policy for £105,000, bringing the total cover to £213,000, 
£9,000 in excess of their new borrowing.  
(Mr and Mrs P were  also recommended some stand-alone policies around the same time, which 
theyve also complained  about. These have been dealt with separately. So, for clarity, here Im 
looking solely  at the mortgage cover.)
In 2017 Mr and Mrs P complained to Thinc about the recommendation.  They  said theyd been led to 
believe they had to take the cover out, despite not requiring it as they already  had sufficient  protection 
in place. They  were  also unhappy that the arrangement  didnt fully cover the new borrowing, because  
the existing level term policy would end five years before the new mortgage was paid off.
Thinc didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that the mortgage offer had made clear there was no 
requirement to take out life cover. And it felt the recommended policy  wouldve  worked alongside  the 
existing level term policy to cover the new borrowing,  with the excess  £9,000 providing useful 
additional cover in respect of Mr and Mrs Ps unsecured borrowing. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator felt 
it should  be upheld  on the basis that a more suitable  recommendation wouldve been  a new 
decreasing term policy, matching the new borrowing  and its term, to replace the existing level term 
policy. 
Neither party  agreed  with the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review.  
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently of the view that it shouldnt be upheld 
and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P had taken out their original mortgage in 2002. The re-mortgage in 2007 significantly 
increased their borrowing  and as such it seems reasonable that the adviser  wouldve made a 
recommendation to ensure  that the new mortgage was covered. I note Mr and Mrs P have said they 
were told they had to take the new cover, but Ive seen nothing  in the associated  documentation that 
supports this. Indeed, the mortgage offer made clear that the only insurance  required was buildings  
insurance, as is usually  the case.
In respect of the structuring of the new cover I can see why the investigator concluded that the most 
suitable recommendation wouldve  been  a decreasing  term policy  to match  the term and balance of 
the mortgage. With a repayment mortgage that would generally be the position. 
But Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances didnt  quite  reflect  such  a straightforward position. In the 
intervening years from when the level term policy  was taken out in 2002 Mr P had been diagnosed  
with a health issue. It meant that any new insurance was likely to be weighted, meaning the 
Ref: DRN91965404premiums would be greater. Indeed, thats what happened with the new decreasing term policy. The 
premiums rose from an initial illustrative amount of £90 to over £100. So, while I acknowledge that 
this rationale wasnt spelt out in the documentation, in the circumstances it appears that it was 
sensible to recommend  keeping the existing  policy, with its lower premiums, and supplement it with 
an additional policy.
But keeping the existing policy did create an issue with the term.  Having started  in 2002 with a 25 
year term the policy would  be due to end in 2027. However, the re-mortgage  was set up to run until 
2032. This meant that in the final five years only the new decreasing policy would still be in place and 
therefore the full outstanding balance  wouldnt quite  be covered. 
I accept that this wasnt ideal.  But given  the likelihood of Mr and Mrs Ps borrowing  requirements 
changing again over the next 20 years I dont think the issue rendered the advice as a whole  entirely 
unsuitable. It may be that the new decreasing  policy  was set up with a higher than necessary  sum 
assured to go some  way toward mitigating the position. I appreciate Thinc has said that the higher 
sum assured  was to address  Mr and Mrs Ps unsecured borrowing, at least  in part. But it seems thats 
been said with hindsight rather than having been given  as a reason  at the advice.  
There was also the fact that Mr and Mrs P had some life cover in place already,  in addition to the level 
term policy. It may be that the adviser took this into consideration  too, and also was aware that he 
was about to make a recommendation of some further life cover (that which  is the subject of the 
separate complaint) and felt, on the whole , that Mr and Mrs P would be sufficiently covered. 
I appreciate that there is an element of speculation here and that the rationale for recommending  the 
mortgage cover as the adviser  did isnt really explained in the sales documentation. But looking at the 
recommendation objectively  in light of the circumstances  at the time, while it may not have  been 
perfect, I dont  think  it was sufficiently wide of the mark for me to make a finding that it was unsuitable. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently of the view 
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ref: DRN9196540