K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mr T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited is refusing  to indemnify  them in respect 
of claims  made by a number of their clients  in relation to some investments.
background
Mr P and Mr T are independent financial advisers. They  have professional indemnity 
insurance cover, which is renewed each year. The policy provides cover for claims or 
circumstances notified to an insurer during the policy period.
This complaint revolves around the 2013/14  policy  period, which ended on 31 May 2014,  
and whether Aviva should indemnify them in respect  of claims made  by some of their clients 
in relation to certain investments. The investments were  made  through self-invested 
personal pensions  (SIPPs). 
When Mr P and Mr T sought to claim on their policy to cover claims made against them, 
Aviva refused to cover the claims.
Aviva said Mr P and Mr T should have disclosed the investments when they renewed the 
policy in May 2013. It said the information Mr P and Mr T had provided at renewal in 2013 
was untrue and inaccurate. And it said that if the relevant investments had been  disclosed, it 
would only have agreed to underwrite the policy on different terms  excluding  any claims 
relating to those  investments. Because of this, Aviva said it was entitled to void the policy.  
Aviva also said Mr P and Mr T could only claim under the 2013/14  policy if they had notified 
it of possible claims during that period,  and they hadnt done so.
In May 2014  Mr P and Mr T emailed the renewal documents to the brokers. Avivas  position 
is that there  was nothing  in these documents giving notice of possible claims relating to the 
investment issues. Mr P and Mr T say there  was a separate notification letter which  they 
sent by post, in an envelope with hard copies of the renewal documents.
Aviva said the notification letter wasnt received  and it did not believe the letter was sent at 
the time.  It said it didnt  make sense that Mr P and Mr T would post the notification letter but 
fail to email it. It thought  their explanation was inconsistent and said the only logical 
explanation was that the letter was created at a later date.
Mr P and Mr T complained about Avivas refusal to accept the claim. Our adjudicator didnt 
think Mr P and Mr T had failed to disclose  the right information when they renewed the policy  
in 2013. But he thought  the key issue was whether they had notified Aviva  of the possible 
claims. He said it was for Mr P and Mr T to prove  they had sent the notification letter and he 
didnt think the evidence showed that the notification  letter  had been prepared  and sent in 
May 2014. So he didnt uphold the complaint. But he said this could  be looked at again if 
Mr P and Mr T could provide more evidence.
Finally, the adjudicator thought that each claim by a client against Mr P and Mr T would  be 
separate, and that each claim by Mr P and Mr T against the insurer  would also be separate, 
so we would  need to look at each complaint individually,  with a separate  limit of £150,000 for 
each complaint.
Aviva then advised that having checked with the broker,  it was apparent  the broker  hadnt 
received any documents by post  it had only received the renewal document by email.  And 
Ref: DRN95922602this confirmed it had never received the notification letter, since  that wasnt attached to the 
email.
After further consideration, the adjudicator concluded that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for Aviva to void the policy  or reject  the claim. He didnt think  the information theyd provided 
when they renewed  the policy in 2013 was such that it allowed Aviva  to void the policy. And 
he said that even  if Mr P and Mr T couldnt prove the notification  letter  had been  sent,  the 
other letter that was sent with the proposal  documents was enough to put Aviva on notice of 
the potential claims.
Aviva disagreed. In summary, it said:
The proposal letter and form cant be interpreted without first deciding  whether the 
disputed notification letter is a fraudulent  document. It has legal advice that it is a 
fraudulent document. It takes fraudulent  claims extremely seriously and has reached 
this conclusion after considering the evidence very carefully. If the notification letter 
wasnt sent then,  in light of the answers on the proposal form, it would be impossible 
fairly to conclude that the letter and proposal form dated 30 May 2014 provided  
enough notice.
Its not possible to say the proposal  letter and form gave block  notification   this 
would go against well-established industry practice.
The test in law as to whether  effective notice has been given, is whether the notice 
makes it sufficiently clear and unambiguous  that theres no reasonable  doubt  a 
notification is being made of circumstances that might give rise to a claim.
It cant be fair and reasonable to compel insurers to indemnify if no adequate notice 
was given, and the policyholders  have fraudulently manufactured a document in 
support of their claim.
The complaint  isnt suitable  for consideration by this service  because it concerns 
potential fraud, factual and expert evidence, a complex professional indemnity policy  
and nuanced non-disclosure issues. It should be considered  by the court.
In any event, even  if the dispute  was suitable  for determination by this service it 
would be irrational  and contrary to procedural fairness to make a decision without an 
oral hearing involving  witness evidence.
The adjudicators  belief that this service can apply multiple award  limits to an award 
against insurers is unfair and irrational  the complaints  would need  to be considered  
together.
Aviva is prepared to meet  the claims under the 2014/15 policy  but Mr P and Mr T dont think  
that would  be fair. The excess  payable under that policy is much higher  than the excess  
under the 2013/14 policy   the policy  wording  specifies  a claim as emanating from an 
individual client, so this would mean  a £50,000  excess for each client  claim.
Our adjudicators view was that this complaint about the 2013/14 policy would have to be 
treated as one complaint, since it turns on the block notification  in May 2014. And so the 
most that this service could award, if the complaint is upheld, is £150,000  in respect of all 
claims.
Mr P and Mr T say this would  make  professional indemnity insurance ineffective because  it 
would cap insurers liability at £150,000. They say this would not be consistent  with the FCA 
minimum requirements, undermines consumer protection and is altering the terms of the 
policy retrospectively. They also say the subject of their complaint is whether they notified  
Aviva of the potential for future claims about the investment, which  might  allow  them to make 
further complaints  each  time Aviva  turns  down  a claim relating to an individual investor.
Ref: DRN95922603I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2018, saying I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
The policy provides cover for claims made  against  Mr P and Mr T during the period of the 
policy  for the 2013/14 policy period, thats from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2014.  Its a 
condition of the policy that if Mr P and Mr T are aware of any information they think  may give 
rise to a claim, they will give notice of this as soon as possible and in any event before the 
end of the policy period. If they are not able to give notice during the policy  period they may 
do so within  15 days after the period  ends.  The policy terms say notice will be deemed  to 
have been made if its received in writing  by the broker.
The terms also say that where a claim is made  involving misrepresentation about high risk 
products, Aviva will not avoid the policy, provided  the misrepresentation is entirely innocent,  
the claim is withdrawn and the policyholder  accept  theres no cover for such claims.
whether we should consider this complaint  and if so, whether we should hold a hearing
Aviva consider this matter  is not suitable for this service to consider, because  it involves an 
allegation of fraud, disputes about  factual and expert  evidence, a complex  professional 
indemnity policy  and nuanced  non-disclosure issues. So its best dealt with by the courts.  
But if this service does  consider  it, Aviva says there should be a hearing to look into these 
issues thoroughly.
The complexity of a case doesnt on its own make  it unsuitable for the service to deal with. In 
any event, in my view the key point  in relation to this issue is the allegation that the 
notification letter Mr P and Mr T say was sent in May 2014 was fraudulent.  I appreciate that 
to reach  a definitive  answer on whether this was fraudulent  might  involve taking  evidence  
from the parties and cross examining them.  So it might be considered  more  appropriately  
dealt with by a court. But I dont think its necessary to reach a definitive conclusion  about 
this; its possible to consider the complaint without doing so, for reasons which Ill explain 
below. So in my judgment  I dont  need to dismiss this as something a court  should determine  
 or hold a hearing.
the 2013 renewal
Aviva says Mr P and Mr T cant claim on the 2013/14 policy because they made 
misrepresentations when they renewed the policy in May 2013, which  means it was allowed 
to void the policy.  And they cant make a claim on the policy if the policy isnt valid.
Under the law in force at the time when  Mr P and Mr T renewed their insurance  in 20131 both 
the customer and the insurer  had a duty of utmost  good faith. The insured  parties   in this 
case, Mr P and Mr T  were required to disclose every circumstance they knew,  or should 
have known, which would influence an insurer in deciding whether  to underwrite a risk or 
what premium  to charge.
The proposal form included a warning about  the importance of providing full disclosure of 
relevant information.  It said details  should be given of any material facts or information  which  
might influence the insurers judgment about  whether to accept the risk and, if so, on what 
1 The Marine  Insurance Act 1906
Ref: DRN95922604basis and at what price. It also warns that failing to disclose relevant information  may lead to 
the policy being void.
Avivas view is that Mr P and Mr T failed  to disclose the investment issues when they 
renewed the policy in 2013. It says that in response to a question about whether the firm had 
ever received any commission/fees  and/or  provided  any advice in respect of unregulated 
collective investment schemes  (UCIS), Mr P and Mr T should  have  disclosed the advice 
theyd given on these  investments.
I agree  that these  investments were UCIS,  but I dont think its clear  that, in mid-2013, Mr P 
and Mr T would have known those particular investments constituted  a UCIS. However, Ive 
considered whether they should  have provided information about this anyway as part of the 
renewal.
Mr P and Mr T themselves acknowledge this was a highly speculative  investment, where  
their clients  could lose everything.  They  werent specifically asked about it by name, but the 
proposal form made it clear they should  provide details of any information they felt was 
relevant to Avivas  assessment of the risk. One of the examples given was any business  that 
they had done but no longer  did. There  were questions about unregulated investments and 
other unusual investments. And there was a reminder to disclose all material facts. I think its 
clear Aviva wanted to know about any higher risk activities.
As financial advisers, Mr P and Mr T would have understood the nature of the investment 
and would have  known this was high risk business.
Mr P and Mr T say they assisted a small number of clients in setting  up a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  which their clients could use to put money into certain 
investments. They say they didnt advise their clients on the underlying  investments other 
than ensuring the clients  were aware  that the investment was highly speculative  and that 
they could lose all their pension funds, and were  prepared  to take that risk.
In January 2013 the regulator  had issued an alert about SIPP  schemes where the underlying 
investment is of the type of investment involved in this case. And the regulator  said even if 
advisers thought  they were simply setting up the SIPP, they couldnt ignore the nature of the 
underlying investment.
So Mr P and Mr T were well aware that this was a high risk, speculative  investment  they 
had warned their clients about the level of risk  and they knew  or should have known that 
the regulator had issued  warnings about this. Its unlikely Aviva  would have wanted  to cover 
this risk, had it been aware of it.
Taking into account the questions in the proposal form, the warnings in that form about 
disclosing information relevant to the insurers assessment of risk, and the wider legal duty 
Mr P and Mr T had to disclose  anything  that would influence the insurers decision about 
offering cover, my judgment  is that this is something they should have disclosed. By not 
telling Aviva about this Mr P and Mr T mispresented the risk Aviva was taking on and failed 
to meet  their duty of utmost good faith.
Aviva has confirmed that, if Mr P and Mr T had provided this information it would either not 
have offered the policy at all, or would only have offered it on different terms  excluding  any 
claims relating to these  investments. Either way, this claim would  not have been covered. 
Ref: DRN95922605And in line with the policy terms, Aviva is entitled to void the policy in these circumstances, 
unless Mr P and Mr T withdraw  the claim and accept  that its not covered.
For these reasons, my view is that it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva  not to cover the 
claim on the 2013/14 policy and to void that policy (and return  the premium).
the claim
It follows from what Ive said above that Aviva  does not need to meet the claim on the 
2013/14 policy. This means I dont need  to consider  the submissions  made about the claim, 
including whether a valid notification was made,  or whether the letter  Mr P and Mr T say was 
sent in May 2014 was fraudulent.
I understand Aviva is prepared to meet the claims under  the 2014/15 policy. I appreciate that 
the way any claims are considered under this policy period will be much less favourable  for 
Mr P and Mr T. This complaint is about  Avivas decision not to cover the claims under the 
2013/14 policy and so Ive only considered the points relevant to this. Its for Mr P and Mr T 
to decide whether to proceed  with claims on the 2014/15 policy.
whether this is one claim or a number of separate claims
The final point Ive considered is whether this should  be treated as one complaint  or a 
number of separate complaints.
Mr P and Mr T are making a single complaint against Aviva about its decision to refuse  cover  
under the 2013/14 policy. The dispute concerns whether Aviva is entitled  to void the policy; 
whether the disputed notification letter was sent;  and whether the letter Mr T sent with the 
proposal form was enough  to amount  to a block notification of claims. On that basis, this is 
one single complaint. If I were to uphold the complaint, my conclusion would be that Aviva 
should have treated Mr Ts letter as a block notification of a claim.
This isnt a question of this service undermining  consumer protection  or rewriting  the 
contract - its an issue of our powers to make  an award. The fact that there are multiple 
claims against Mr P and Mr T isnt relevant  to whether they are making one complaint or 
more. I dont think I can say that Aviva  was making separate  decisions each time it was 
notified of individual claims;  it was making  the same decision   had these claims been 
notified through the proposal  letter or were the 2014 notifications the first notifications it had 
received?
This is a single decision, in respect of which I could award fair compensation to be paid by a 
financial business of up to £150,000 (plus any interest and/or costs  as appropriate). But, as 
Ive explained,  I dont intend  to uphold the complaint and so I would not make any award.
developments 
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision. Aviva had no comments  on my findings.  
Mr P and Mr T didnt agree with the provisional  decision and we received further comments  
on their behalf. As these  are very detailed, I have summarised some of the key points as 
follows:
Its no part of the provisional decision that the letter  sent in May 2014 was fraudulent; 
that Mr P and Mr T would  have  known the investments  in question were a UCIS; or 
Ref: DRN95922606that there  was an effective basis of insurance clause (which might  be an issue if the 
matter ends up in court).
As the above  points are not relevant to the decision  they will make no further  
comment on them. They have limited their comments to the key point  should Aviva  
be able to void the 2013-14 policy for non-disclosure?
The provisional decision turns on two points   that Mr P and Mr T knew the 
investments were high risk; and that they knew Aviva would want  to know about 
them. 
Its not accurate  to say that, as financial advisers, Mr P and Mr T would have 
understood the nature of the investment and would have  known this was high risk 
business, or that Aviva would have wanted  to know about it.
In the 2014  proposal, Aviva included questions about this investment. The fact that 
Aviva thought it necessary to expand their question  to include investing in this type of 
pension may be taken as indicating  that independent financial advisers, responding 
to the questions used in 2013, had not understood them  to extend to circumstances 
such as these.
Mr P and Mr T did disclose on the proposal form that they had had some  involvement 
in this type of investment and UCIS. So Aviva were aware of a higher risk profile  for 
them than a practice which dealt solely with domestic low risk products.
The Regulators advice in 2013  referred to advice recommending  an investment. 
Mr P and Mr T hadnt  recommended the investment and had in fact advised  their 
clients against them. This reduced  the chance  of a claim against  them  and, therefore, 
reduced the risk. No reasonable adviser would have thought  they would be liable 
when a client insisted  on investing  contrary to advice not to do so.
Mr P and Mr T were aware of the regulators notice about this type of investment. But 
that didnt lead them to think they were at any risk of claims arising out of this. The 
guidance said advisers couldnt  facilitate  SIPPs without  considering  the suitability of 
the underlying  investments, and they had considered suitability.
In law, the questions asked by an insurer are likely to limit the duty of disclosure if a 
reasonable person  would consider the questions  meant the insurer only wanted to 
know about the information requested, and had waived the right to know  about other 
matters. Its likely a court would consider that, having answered  the questions  on the 
proposal form, Mr P and Mr T were  entitled to consider  they had provided the 
information required. When signing the form, Mr T believed  the specific  questions on 
the form identified the types  of products Aviva wanted to be told about. He felt 
entitled to assume that Aviva did not require information on other types of work. 
They believed this type of investment was risky,  but they had no knowledge  of the 
specific investment and no expertise in this area  and made  this clear to their 
clients.
Even if there was a breach  of the duty of good  faith, Aviva  still has to show it acted 
differently as a result   entering  into the insurance contract on different terms from 
those that would have been  offered, as a result of the information provided. 
All Aviva has said is that the investments were UCIS; therefore, a wrong answer was 
given to the question about  this. Aviva relies  on a basis of insurance  clause to say it 
makes no difference  if Mr P and Mr T were  unaware the investments in question  
were UCIS. But theres nothing  from the underwriter explaining how the information 
about the investment would have changed  things.
Aviva  hasnt shown that the information would influence the judgment of a prudent  
insurer; there is no evidence to that effect. Its unlikely that in May 2013 a prudent  
insurer would have  perceived a risk of successful claims by insistent clients  who 
ignored Mr P and Mr Ts advice  to leave their pensions where they were.
Ref: DRN95922607In this complaint,  Mr P and Mr T have asked  for a determination that Aviva would be 
liable under the 2013-14  policy  to give indemnity  in the event of liability against them 
in respect of any claims relating to these  investments. If this complaint is upheld, it 
would open the way to Aviva  providing indemnity  for any claims that are then made. 
If Aviva didnt  pay out on one of those claims,  Mr P and Mr T could then bring a fresh 
complaint for that particular claim and the ombudsman would be able to make 
separate money awards for each such complaint.
Aviva subsequently provided  further  comments from the underwriter who considered the 
matter at the time. He has confirmed that if he had been presented  with disclosure of all the 
investments on the proposal form in May 2013,  he would not have  underwritten  the 2013-4 
policy on the terms that he did  he would have  applied  an exclusion for all business relating 
to those investments  for a number of reasons, including:  
as a specialist  financial  services underwriter, he was very aware of the risks 
presented by high risk products of this nature and thought very carefully about how 
they would  identify and underwrite high risk products;
the proposal form was drafted specifically to identify  not only UCIS but also any other  
high risk products  which  would impact on the risk being  underwritten;
he took careful note of any relevant  FCA publications and would have been  aware  of 
the alert in January 2013, so he was aware that the investment in question was a 
high risk product  and the FCA had concerns about this;
he applied a similar exclusion in relation to another  financial advisory firm which  he 
underwrote under the same scheme  at the same  time.
After reviewing the further comments and evidence, I explained to both parties  that I wasnt  
minded to change  my provisional decision, because:
The nature  of the clients and the proportions of their pensions which they were 
investing meant it was high risk business;  there was a good chance the investments 
would not go well, and therefore  a good chance  of claims  against them.
So it wasnt reasonable simply to assume Aviva didnt want to know  about this. And I 
didnt think a reasonable person would think  Aviva  had waived its rights  to know 
about it or had waived  its rights to know about  any other high risk investments. 
I thought it would have influenced the mind of a reasonably prudent underwriter. 
Based on the underwriting evidence,  it seemed highly unlikely Aviva would have 
offered the policy had it known about  these  investments or, if it had done  so, it would 
have been charging  a higher premium.
In response, weve had further comments from Mr P and Mr Ts solicitors. Again, as the 
comments are detailed  I have summarised some  key points.
Its important to note that Mr P and Mr T didnt recommend the investments. Their 
clients were insistent  clients  in other  words,  they invested  against the advice 
given to them. The service Mr P and Mr T actually  provided was setting up of a SIPP 
- routine  and low risk business.
The underwriter notes  that advisers  who recommended that customers transfer their 
occupational pensions to invest in an investment such as this would be responsible 
for the suitability for the underlying investments. But Mr P and Mr T did not 
recommend it. 
The underwriter also notes that where  theres an insistent customer, its highly 
unlikely that there will be a successful claim or complaint against the firm. And Aviva  
previously said the disclosure of this business might have  had an effect  on the 
underwriters assessment of risk. But without further information suggesting  that 
Ref: DRN95922608claims might arise,  they didnt  think these  investments constituted  a notifiable 
circumstance.
So the business Mr P and Mr T were undertaking wasnt  in fact high risk. The fact 
that claims may have  been made later on doesnt affect the perceived  risk at that 
time.
The underwriter addresses  how Aviva would have reacted but the proposition  
concerns how Mr P and Mr T would or should have expected an insurer  to react.
Theres no evidence Aviva made the underwriters approach known to a prospective  
insured in our clients position  in fact, the questions on the proposal form suggested 
otherwise. 
Ultimately,  the question whether there  was non-disclosure by a prospective insured is 
surely to an extent one of feel.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive explained, the evidence and 
comments in this case are detailed and extensive.  I have  summarised  various points above 
but have considered every submission carefully. And having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusion about what is fair and reasonable, for the reasons  set out in the provisional 
decision and the reasons  set out below
As I said in the provisional decision,  Mr P and Mr T had a wider legal duty to disclose any 
facts which  they knew  or were deemed to know  which  would influence  the insurers decision 
about offering  cover.  Whether  Mr P and Mr T thought it would influence  the insurers 
decision is generally not relevant. However, I have  to consider whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case,  so I agree with Mr P and Mr Ts solicitors  that this decision 
effectively turns on two key questions  
1.Whether Mr P and M T knew the investments  were high risk business;  and
2.Whether they knew or should  have known  that Aviva would have wanted to be told 
about business of the kind which they had carried out in relation to these 
investments.
Their solicitors have explained  in some  detail why they think  my provisional  decision is 
wrong on these points. I dont propose to go through every  point they have made in detail, 
but to explain  why my view on these points hasnt  changed.
I have considered whether, even if the investment itself was high risk, Mr P and Mr Ts 
activities were  low risk, because they were just setting  up a SIPP rather than advising clients  
to make the investment. I remain of the view that this was high risk, for the reasons 
explained below.  For the avoidance of doubt, Im not commenting  on whether any complaint 
made by a client against Mr P or Mr T should be upheld or not.
Mr P and Mr T have given some  information  about the advice they gave to their clients.  They 
have agreed that the type of investment  was relatively high risk and speculative  and that 
they thought it was too uncertain  to be suitable as a receptacle for a significant  part of the 
pension savings of an investor of modest means.  They say they only had limited information 
on the investment,  but they knew that it was not liquid and was only suitable for 
sophisticated investors. On their own case,  they told their clients  this was a highly 
speculative investment and they could lose everything. They referred  to the investment as 
this very high risk approach and said that the projected returns rang alarm bells, so they 
Ref: DRN95922609recommended extreme caution. So I think Mr P and Mr T knew or should have known that 
the investments  were  high risk.
I also note that Mr Ts letter to the insurers in May 2014 (this is not the disputed  notification 
letter) states that, of the 14 clients for the investment, 12 were  investing all their pension, 
another was investing their pension and cash savings, and the final client  was investing 50% 
of their pension. Only four were sophisticated clients or high net worth  investors. There is 
nothing to suggest that the majority of these clients could afford to lose some or all of their 
investments. Even though Mr P and Mr T had advised against the investment, I think  the 
nature of the clients and the proportions  of their pensions they were investing meant this was 
high risk business for Mr P and Mr T.
I appreciate they were  asked specific questions in the 2013 proposal form and answered 
those. Ive taken  into account the points they make about the legal  position.  In particular, I 
have considered whether, by asking if Mr P and Mr T had ever received fees or provided 
advice in respect of certain specified  products, Aviva  had waived  its right to information on 
similar products  which  were  outside the scope of its questions. But I dont think this meant 
they didnt have to say anything else, or that a reasonable  person  would  think Aviva had 
waived its rights to know about  other risks, including the investment here. The proposal  form 
said very clearly that if there was any information  which wasnt specifically requested  but 
which they felt was relevant to the insurers appraisal of the risk, they should provide it. One 
of the examples given was any business which  they had previously undertaken but no longer  
did.  Theres also a reminder  to disclose all material facts. 
On balance, I think its reasonable  to say Mr P and Mr T should have disclosed the 
investments, even though they were  not asked a specific question, because they knew  or 
should have known that it was high risk business. 
To my mind,  the example  case  they have provided  confirms this view.  They  advised their 
client that this was a highly speculative  investment, only for sophisticated investors, and 
they could lose all their money. Mr P and Mr Ts advice to the client noted that they were not 
comfortable that he could understand the highly speculative nature  of the investment. They  
were not themselves familiar with this type of investment, which they said was outside  their 
remit, and advised  their client to carry out their own due diligence investigations. 
In addition, this particular client was taking money  out of a relatively safer  investment in 
more standard  pension  schemes. Where clients are moving money from traditional pension 
schemes to a highly  speculative  investment then - even though they advised against the 
investment  that doesnt alter the fact it was high risk. So there was a good chance of the 
investment not going well and  if that happened   of a claim against them.
As Ive said,  the proposal form gave examples of the sorts of things to be disclosed,  which  
included business  they had done  but no longer did, with questions about unregulated  and 
unusual investments. And there  was a reminder  to disclose  all material facts.  I think the 
nature of these investments fell squarely within this description. I dont think  it was 
reasonable simply to assume Aviva didnt  want  to know  about this.
In coming to this view,  I have also taken into account that Mr P and Mr T are in the financial  
services sector, so they are not in the same position as another customer might be. And they 
could also have asked  their broker for advice about  their disclosure obligations,  if they 
werent sure.  
Ref: DRN959226010Mr P and Mr T make  the point that the 2014 proposal form contained a specific question 
about the investment. I dont think Avivas decision to ask a specific question  about the 
investment in 2014 shows that a reasonable person would think  that Aviva had waived its 
rights to know about it in 2013. 
I have considered whether the information  about the investment would have  been  material.  
The test is whether it would have influenced  the mind of a reasonably prudent  underwriter in 
exercising his underwriting  judgment as to whether to renew the insurance. Its not 
necessary for the information  to be decisive, provided it is something which would have been 
taken into account.2 This is a question of fact and my view is that the information was 
material because the investments were high risk. 
I dont think expert evidence is required to show this as I think the answer is clear. The 
investments were high risk and speculative. The majority of the clients were not 
sophisticated, but they were disregarding Mr P and Mr Ts advice  and investing  sums which  
were (a) significant; and (b) represented  all or a substantial part of their pensions. 
I have also considered whether Aviva has done enough to show the failure  to disclose the 
advice would have  made a difference.  The underwriter has explained that it would have  
affected his decisions  - he applied an exclusion in relation  to another  financial advisory firm 
in relation to this type of investment, and when Mr P and Mr T did provide information at the 
following years renewal, he initially sought to exclude cover  for this altogether. In the end 
the policy was renewed with a complete exclusion  except  where  the client had signed  a 
document confirming  that they were  an "insistent client"  in which  case, there were very 
stringent conditions attached, including the increased excess  of £50,000 per claim that Ive 
referred to above.  
The policy terms themselves also cover this. They say Aviva  waives its rights to avoid the 
policy, provided that the error was innocent, and that claims involving the non-disclosure of 
high risk products  are withdrawn. So in relation to high risk products, I think its clear Aviva  
was saying that it didnt want to accept  that risk (which  is understandable,  given the premium 
was only £5,000).  If it wanted to take on high risk products of this nature, its likely the 
premium would have  been higher, to reflect that high risk.
This complaint is about Avivas decision not to cover the claims under the 2013/14 policy. In 
the provisional decision I said Aviva does not need to meet the claim on the 2013/14  policy, 
so I dont need to consider submissions about the claim, including  whether  a valid 
notification was made, or whether the letter Mr P and Mr T say was sent in May 2014 was 
fraudulent. 
My view on this hasnt  changed. And for all the reasons  set out above,  my view remains that 
it would  be fair and reasonable for Aviva not to cover the claim on the 2013/14 policy and to 
void that policy (and return the premium).
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
2 Synergy  Health UK Ltd v CGU Insurance  Plc [2010] EWHC 2583 (Comm) and MacGillivray on 
Insurance Law at 17-036 and 17-042-044
Ref: DRN959226011Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592260