K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited refused his claim  for the NHS  hospital cash 
benefit, which is sometimes  payable  under  his private medical insurance policy.
background
In January last year Mr D went  to an accident  and emergency (A&E) department  and was 
subsequently admitted  to hospital. He was then transferred to another  hospital  for more 
specialist care and was diagnosed with dilated  cardiomyopathy. Mr D was in hospital  for 
some days  and tried to claim for the NHS hospital cash  benefit  under the private medical 
insurance policy he has with Vitality.
Vitality declined Mr Ds claim with reference to Mr Ds policy terms and conditions.  It said:
Policyholders are eligible to claim the NHS hospital cash benefit if they have made  the 
choice to be admitted  to hospital  as a non-paying NHS patient  when they could have 
instead been admitted as a private patient.
Mr D was admitted to hospital  as an emergency via A&E and the cash benefit is not 
available in those  circumstances.
Mr D didnt accept this and asked us to look into his complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision last month and have attached a copy  of that to this final 
decision  it forms part of this final decision  and details in full how and why I reached my 
conclusions. 
In summary,  I concluded that Vitality hadnt  done anything wrong. In the circumstances and 
with reference  to the policy terms and conditions, I didnt think Mr Ds emergency treatment 
and related care were  covered  by his policy or that he was eligible for the NHS hospital cash 
benefit. Nor did I think Vitality had misled Mr D about the hospital cash  benefit.
Mr D didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional  decision, and neither 
did Vitality.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no-one  sent any further evidence or arguments  for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision (as attached) and summarised 
above.
Ref: DRN98291872my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98291873COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Vitality Health  Limited refused his claim for the NHS hospital  cash  benefit, which 
is sometimes payable under his private medical  insurance policy.
background
In January this year Mr D went to an accident and emergency (A&E)  department and was 
subsequently admitted to hospital. He was then transferred  to another  hospital for more specialist 
care and was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy.  Mr D was in hospital for some days  and tried to 
claim for the NHS  hospital cash benefit under the private medical insurance policy he has with Vitality.
Vitality declined  Mr Ds claim with reference to Mr Ds policy terms and conditions. It said:
Policyholders are eligible to claim  the NHS hospital cash benefit if they have made the choice to 
be admitted to hospital as a non-paying  NHS  patient when they could have instead been admitted  
as a private patient.
Mr D was admitted to hospital as an emergency via A&E and the cash  benefit  is not available in 
those circumstances.
Mr D didnt accept this and asked us to look into his complaint. But our investigator didnt think  Vitality 
had done anything wrong  he concluded itd acted in line with the policy  terms and conditions. Mr D 
disagreed and said:
The first hospital was planning on discharging him because there were  no beds available at the 
specialist hospital.  If hed been discharged  he wouldve been treated at the second hospital as an 
outpatient and so eligible for private treatment. But, at the last minute, a bed became available 
and he was transferred  to the second hospital.
At the point when  he was transferred  to the second hospital he couldve instead transferred to a 
private facility but chose  not to because he was advised  he might receive better  care by staying 
under the NHS. 
Vitality should have,  but didnt, draw his attention  to the exclusion  in its advertising. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Was it fair of Vitality to decline Mr Ds claim?
Vitality is obliged,  under industry rules, to handle  claims promptly and fairly and not unreasonably 
reject them. Ive looked at the policy  terms and conditions  and taken into account  what  Mr D has said 
when deciding  whether Vitality did anything wrong  in declining his claim.  Having done so, and while  I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed, I dont currently think it was unfair of Vitality to decline his claim  
 Ill explain why.
The terms  and conditions include a summary  of cover and exclusions  which says the policy doesnt 
cover emergency treatment.  And the more detailed  exclusions section  explains that Vitality will not 
pay for emergency treatment which includes
treatment in an Accident  & Emergency  unit or other  urgent care centre
admission to hospital in an emergency
urgent admission to hospital  following an unscheduled out-patient  appointment
Ref: DRN98291874and all care associated with such an admission until the condition has been fully stabilised
The terms  and conditions also explains  how the NHS  hospital  cash  benefit works. It says:
WHATS COVERED
A cash amount payable for:
eligible in-patient  treatment  that you choose to have as a non-paying NHS patient  even though 
you could have had the treatment in a private facility 
eligible day-patient treatment that you choose to have as a non-paying  NHS patient  even though 
you could have had the treatment in a private facility
WHAT'S NOT  COVERED
if treatment is not eligible under this plan
if treatment is not available at a private facility eligible under your plan
if you are admitted to an NHS  hospital in an emergency, no benefit  will be payable for any part of 
the admission
if you choose to transfer to a private  hospital  for part of your treatment, then no benefit is payable 
for any of the nights  you spent as a non-paying NHS patient
if you are admitted as an in-patient after midnight, then no benefit is payable for that first night 
spent in hospital
From what Ive seen Mr D was admitted  to hospital via A&E as an emergency. He said latterly that he 
was nearly discharged from the first hospital and it was then his choice  to continue  under NHS  care 
rather than transfer to private  care. But he also said on his complaint form that he was transferred to 
the second hospital on day two and suggests he was hospitalised for a total of 10 days. That doesnt 
seem to me to fit with his more recent assertion  that he was ready  for discharge on day two. In the 
circumstances it seems  more likely to me that the treatment  he had over the relevant  period of time all 
related to his emergency admission. 
Ive seen no evidence to support Mr Ds assertion that he was medically fit for discharge on day two. 
And, in any event, theres nothing to suggest he told Vitality at the time that he couldve been 
discharged. We have  a recording of the call he made to Vitality in which  he asks only about  making a 
claim for the cash benefit. The call-handler explains hes not eligible  because  he was admitted 
through A&E as an emergency. And Mr D doesnt point out then that he couldve been  discharged on 
day two and it was his choice then to remain hospitalised and stay under  NHS care.
So Im currently  satisfied, in accordance with the terms and conditions,  that Mr Ds emergency 
treatment and related care was not covered  by his policy  and he was not eligible for the NHS hospital  
cash benefit.
Im aware that Mr D has more recently submitted a claim  for treatment related to his dilated 
cardiomyopathy and Vitality have agreed to pay that claim. But that doesnt mean  Mr D was eligible to 
claim for the initial treatment or the cash benefit.
Did Vitality mislead Mr D about the NHS  hospital cash benefit?
Mr D says the advertising about the cash benefit was misleading but I currently think Vitality provided 
with sufficient,  clear  information  about  this. 
Vitality has told us that Mr Ds policy was sold to him by a broker. I dont know  what discussions he 
had with the broker at the point of sale or at each annual renewal.  But if he feels the broker misled 
him in some way at those points about the policy  benefit  then he could raise a separate  complaint  
about that against the broker. 
I can consider only the part Vitality paid in the sale and renewal process  in other words, the 
information it provided. 
Ref: DRN98291875With that in mind, I can see Mr D first took out his policy  in 2015 and it has renewed  every year in 
August since  then. 
Vitality has sent us a copy of the renewal letter it sent to Mr Ds broker in June 2017  detailing the 
cover in place  for the following  year.  It was the brokers  responsibility to pass this information on to Mr 
D and I dont  think  Vitality can be held responsible  if the broker didnt  do that.
The letter detailed the policy terms  and benefits  including the NHS  hospital cash benefit  and said 
a full explanation of what these terms mean can be found in the plan terms and conditions  
document. Enclosed with the letter was a document explaining the Important  Changes to Your  Plan 
and page two explained, amongst other things, that for the NHS Hospital cash benefit no benefit  is 
payable if you are admitted in an emergency. Full details can be found on page 13 [of the terms and 
conditions]. 
So I think Vitality did enough  to draw  attention to this particular exclusion. And Ive also already 
explained what the full terms and conditions said about this benefit.  Mr D couldve  referred  to that 
document if he was unsure  about anything after reading the renewal letter or discussed  this further 
with his broker.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829187