K822xcomplaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way a claim  under  her home insurance  policy  for water  leaks  from 
burst pipes has been dealt with by Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G).
background 
Mrs C made  a claim to L&G in February  2018 after discovering an escape of water.  Her 
home was badly damaged. A second water leak caused additional damage.
L&G appointed a loss adjuster to manage the clam on its behalf. It paid for Mrs C and her 
family to stay in alternative accommodation  while her property was dried out and repaired.
Mrs C complained to L&G about  various communication  problems  and delays in the early  
stages of the claim. In July 2018 L&G acknowledged that its service should have been  better  
and offered Mrs C £200 compensation for that.
In August  2018  Mrs C made a further complaint. Amongst other things she said:
The stress of trying  to find accommodation had made her ill;
Shed  incurred additional phone  costs;
L&Gs supplier had damaged her porch.
L&G apologised for the service  shed received. It asked  for information about her additional  
utility costs in order  that it could  consider  them. It said its supplier would repair the damage  
to the porch. Lastly it offered her a further £75 compensation.
The repair works were due to be completed  by November 2018. Mrs C says when it became 
clear that the works would overrun, she asked  L&G to approve an extension to her tenancy 
which was due to end in early November.  She says L&G didnt approve this until it was too 
late for her to stay there. She made  another complaint  about  this. L&G offered her £300 
compensation for this.
As Mrs C didnt  think the compensation offered was enough, she brought  her complaint  to 
this service. Our investigator thought L&G should  increase the compensation to £1,000  in 
total. She also suggested that L&G should  provide a schedule of the areas of remaining 
work and estimates  for completion. L&G agreed. It paid the compensation and agreed to 
provide a schedule of works.  
As Mrs C didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me. Mrs C also raised issues  about  
(amongst other things) damp and electrical  work  at her property. L&G agreed that they could  
be considered  as part of this complaint. It said that the work required wasnt  related to her 
claim. Our investigator didnt think Mrs C had shown that L&G was responsible for these 
problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are well aware  of the history of this claim. In making its offers of compensation 
L&G has effectively accepted that it could  have handled this claim better. Ill look whether 
L&G treated  Mrs C fairly in its offer of compensation. Ill take into account the fact that a 
Ref: DRN94105592claim like this would always have caused Mrs C a degree of inconvenience. Ill look at the 
extent to which L&G made it worse than it needed to be and the effect this had on Mrs C.
It appears to me that there are three main issues in this case   poor customer  service, 
delays, accommodation  problems and poor workmanship by UKIs contractor. Ill look at the 
main points of each of these in turn. But I appreciate  that there were  a large number of other 
failings.
poor customer service
The first loss adjuster  made a number of errors  regarding the excess  payable for Mrs Cs 
two claims and amounts  payable to her. In addition there was poor communication  in respect 
of her claim  and delays in getting back to Mrs C. All this caused considerable confusion  and 
trouble for Mrs C, particularly  in the first few months of the claim.
delays
In my view there was poor organisation at the beginning of the claim and issues such as a 
faulty dehumidifier meant  it took longer than it should have done to dry the property. The 
parties havent given  me a clear idea of how much time was wasted in this way but I 
estimate it was at least several  weeks. I note that originally L&G expected the works to finish  
by September  2018 but the parties  were  still discussing  outstanding issues  three months 
later. This meant that Mrs C and her family had to spend more time away from their home 
than they needed to.
accommodation
When Mrs C first raised the question of extending the lease of her temporary 
accommodation, L&G refused on the basis that it expected her property to be habitable  by 
September 2018 even if it still needed  some  finishing touches. By the time L&G had 
changed its decision, it was too late for Mrs C to stay in her rented property since  her 
landlord had found another tenant in the meantime. She says she had to stay with friends  
while her children stayed somewhere else for three weeks. I appreciate  that this would have 
caused her a great deal of unnecessary stress and inconvenience, particularly because her 
daughter was in the middle of important exams at this time. 
poor workmanship
It seems  to be accepted  that there were instances of poor workmanship such  as 
wallpapering the wrong rooms and damage  caused by L&Gs contractors to Mrs Cs property 
such as her front porch. Even though  L&G agreed  to have these issues  made good, I think  it 
caused Mrs C a degree of upset.  
Damp and electrical work
Mrs C complained that various  rooms in her home were still damp, particularly  a loft room.  
Also she isnt happy that L&Gs contractor  refused to reinstate the electrical supply on safety 
grounds. It said the problem was due to the pre-existing condition of the electrics and not the 
burst pipe claim. Mrs C believes  the problem is either due to work carried out by L&Gs  
emergency electrician  or is related to the leaks. 
L&G says that the damp  has been caused by water getting in because  the lead flashing  
around the chimney had failed rather than the water leaks. It said it would reconsider its 
decision if Mrs C could provide independent  evidence to the contrary. I appreciate  that Mrs C 
feels strongly that its L&Gs responsibility to make good the damp plaster. But I dont think  it 
acted unreasonably in relying on its experts  report. Having looked at photos of the roof, I 
think they support  L&Gs  conclusion.  
Ref: DRN94105593In the absence of any professional evidence to show that L&Gs conclusions regarding the 
damp and electrical  work were wrong,  Im not persuaded that L&G has treated Mrs C unfairly  
or unreasonably  in this respect.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but based  on what Ive awarded for similar impact  on 
consumers caused  by an insurers failings, overall I think an award of £1,000 is appropriate 
to compensate her for the trouble  and upset caused  to her by L&Gs various failings in this 
instance.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Legal & General Insurance Limited  to pay Mrs C £1,000  
compensation for the trouble and upset  its caused her (less  any amounts its already paid to 
her in respect of this). I also require Legal  & General Insurance  Limited to provide a 
schedule of any outstanding works in respect  of Mrs Cs claim and the timescale for 
completion of them  if it hasnt already done  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9410559