K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has offered three different 
amounts to settle  their home insurance  claim after a vehicle damaged their boundary wall. 
They remain  unhappy with the latest  figure  offered to them.
background
Mr and Mrs Ds home  insurance policy is underwritten by RSA,  which  means its responsible 
for their claim and complaint. For ease, I will mainly refer to RSA when  referencing  the 
actions of the parties involved.
As requested by RSA, Mr and Mrs D submitted two quotes for the repairs  their lowest  was 
£5,200. But due to the claim value RSA then appointed  a company to assess  the damage, 
and soon afterwards  a surveyor visited Mr and Mrs D.  The surveyor estimated the cost of 
the repairs to be £4,253.  In his report he commented: 
-Works will be to take down the remaining areas  of damaged  wall. Reinstate the brick 
and rebuild the wall to match existing. The gates are to be reused where possible 
however might need to be replaced in part.
The surveyor appointed  a contractor from RSAs network of approved repairers,  which 
visited Mr and Mrs D within  a few days.  It scoped the works at £2,862. RSA says this 
amount was later increased to £3,434 due to a variation to the scope.
Mr and Mrs D dont want to use RSAs contractor  and are unhappy with the cash  settlement 
amount thats  been offered as an alternative  which is currently £4,253  less their policy 
excess. They would like RSA to pay their lowest quote, which  the builder has agreed  to 
reduce to £5,000.
Mr and Mrs D say the first settlement offer, of £2,862, was made during a phone  call after 
RSAs contractors had visited  them. They  say because  they declined  this first offer it was 
quickly raised to £3,434  within that same call  therefore, they dont believe the first two 
offers were  based  on anything, but were attempts to persuade  them to accept an unfair  
amount. The offer was then later increased to £4,253 to reflect the surveyors  original 
estimated costs.
Mr and Mrs D also highlight that they received a letter from RSAs contractor stating it had 
received authorisation to proceed  with the repairs even though they had already  declined 
this option. They believe the letter was sent to persuade them  RSAs  contractor  had to 
complete the work.
Mr and Mrs D say during the surveyors visit, he told them  their quote would be acceptable if 
it was reduced to £5,000. But RSA says it doesnt have any records  to support the surveyor 
considered £5,000 to be reasonable. Mr and Mrs D say they arent surprised the surveyor  
didnt record their conversation given  he declined  to reveal his name,  provide a business 
card, or sign the form they were given.
Ref: DRN96332122Mr and Mrs D say they have asked RSA for the material and labour costs that make up the 
£4,253 settlement offer, but their request has been refused on the basis  the information is 
sensitive. They also say the three  gates  need to be replaced rather  than repaired,  and the 
wall completely rebuilt from new  which they say accounts for their higher estimate of 
£5,000.
RSA considered a complaint, but it concluded that the £4,253 settlement offer was fair and in 
in-line with the policy  terms   which  explain a cash settlement wont exceed the amount RSA 
can complete the repairs for. RSA reiterated  that Mr and Mrs D could  either accept the offer 
of £4,253 (less their excess) or allow its contractors to complete the work. RSA did however 
offer them £75 to apologise for their claim journey  noting they had to call in a few times 
and a call back wasnt received as promised.
Mr and Mrs D then referred  their complaint to this service. The complaint was considered by 
one of our investigators, but she agreed  RSAs offer was fair and didnt think  it needed to do 
anything more. Because Mr and Mrs D disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustration having been asked to obtain  quotes and given 
their preference for using  a contractor known to them. But RSA wasnt  obligated to accept 
their quote,  and I dont  consider it unreasonable that it appointed its own surveyor to 
estimate costs once it understood the value of the claim  being made.
RSA has explained  that the surveyors original estimate was based on the anticipated works 
and the pricing  system used for its approved repairer network. Its not unusual  for an insurer 
to estimate costs this way, and for the figure to then be adjusted  once an appointed repairer 
has completed its own scope. Again, this isnt something I consider unreasonable.
Nonetheless, I can understand  why Mr and Mrs D are concerned given the settlement offer 
has changed three times  particularly if RSAs first offer increased during one phone  call. 
But on balance, I accept  RSA made  an honest mistake  with the first offer  and Im not 
persuaded it did anything wrong  in terms of the second and third offer.  Ill explain why.
RSA says its initial offer was incorrect due to a scope variation. However, Im not persuaded 
this explanation is entirely accurate,  because  based on the scope we have been  shown the 
second offer simply included an amount  for VAT, rather  than accounting  for varied works. 
But in any event, what matters here is Im persuaded  an honest mistake  was made in 
respect of the wrong figure being  quoted to Mr and Mrs D. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D would have been disadvantaged  if they had accepted RSAs initial 
offer, but that didnt happen   and the correct amount was communicated  during the same 
phone call. Therefore,  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D were impacted by the mistake.
Ref: DRN96332123RSA says it can complete  the repairs for £3,434  and Ive been shown the scope of repairs 
which confirms this. Therefore, under the policy terms, £3,434  (less the policy excess) is the 
limit of RSAs liability. If Mr and Mrs D dont want RSAs contractor to undertake the repairs, 
RSA doesnt need to cash settle  the claim for more than in its liability  amount. As such, Im 
satisfied it didnt do anything wrong  by offering £3,434.
The offer was then increased a third time, to £4,253  as per the surveyors  initial  estimate. 
RSA says this offer was made in an attempt to meet in the middle  between  its repair  costs  
and Mr and Mrs Ds quote  to try to resolve the complaint. In my view, RSA was treating    
Mr and Mrs D fairly  here, because it didnt need  to offer more  than its liability amount. 
Therefore, Im also satisfied it didnt  do anything wrong with its third offer.
Mr and Mrs D say the surveyor told them that RSA would accept their quote if it was reduced 
to £5,000. But even if I accept what Mr and Mrs D say here, Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to decide RSA should  settle the claim for £5,000. I say this because  RSA has 
since established it can do the repairs for much  less, and Mr and Mrs D didnt incur  any 
costs based on what the surveyor told them.
Mr and Mrs D dont believe RSAs scope includes all the required repairs.  They  believe their 
gates need to be replaced and their wall rebuilt  from new.  But overall, Im not persuaded by 
this. Based on the photos we have  been  shown and the surveyors report,  in my opinion  its 
reasonable for RSA to attempt to repair the gates and use some of the existing materials  to 
repair the damaged  sections  of the wall. I havent  seen or been  told anything  that suggests 
this isnt viable.  But rather, Mr and Mrs Ds own quote states the gates are to be repaired,  
and is silent on which sections of the wall need to be rebuilt.  Furthermore, RSAs  £3,434  
scope does include an allowance for new bespoke gates and replacement bricks should  
these be required.
Mr and Mrs D have asked for a breakdown of the contractors pricing. But RSA isnt under an 
obligation to provide these details  this service  generally considers such  information to be 
commercially sensitive.  However, if requested RSA should provide them with an unpriced 
schedule of repairs so they know what works are being undertaken or is included  in their 
cash settlement.
In conclusion, Im persuaded the £4,253 cash settlement offer (which is subject to the policy 
excess) is fair and reasonable. It exceeds  the amount  RSA can complete the repairs  for and 
its offering to do the works. Based on all the information provided by both parties, Im also 
persuaded RSAs  scope  is reasonable in terms of the works required.
In respect of the service issues RSA identified, Im satisfied £75 is a fair acknowledgment of 
the impact on Mr and Mrs D. They  havent  told us anything which  leads me to believe 
otherwise.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs D. But for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN96332124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633212