K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple. Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs H took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in April 
2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she was led to believe that having the PPI was a pre-requisite of having  the card 
account. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Hs application form for the store card.  It has a separate 
section for PPI (which  it calls Account Cover) with wording that says: only sign this box if 
you require Account Cover. Mrs H has signed in that section to request the policy.  She 
could have left that section  blank  if she didnt want the PPI. Beneath  the PPI section there 
was another section for a different sort of insurance, but that section  hasnt been  completed.  
If, as Mrs H suggests, she was misled into taking out insurance cover,  with the sales 
assistant just ticking boxes on the form for her, I might have expected  her to end up with all 
of the available insurance options.
Ive no doubt that Mrs H has provided her honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Hs recollection of the sale 
has faded. Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL made Mrs H aware  that she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI  and the way that the application  form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mrs H probably decided to buy it, knowing she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs H, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
I think Mrs H must have  known something  about  the policy (that it would cover  her card 
repayments if she was unable to work) because I dont consider she would have decided to 
take it out without  knowing  anything at all about  it.
Mrs H would have received sick pay from her employer. But the policy  would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. Mrs H 
has also said that she had about £2,500 in savings at the time, although this was earmarked 
Ref: DRN90636302for a holiday.  Regardless, having  the policy would have meant that she could have retained 
her savings or used  them to cover other outgoings at what  would have been a difficult  time.
Mrs H says she doesnt have a mortgage  on her property. Im unclear as to whether shes 
saying she was mortgage free in 2000, but it makes no difference to my decision.  The PPI, 
would have paid her card repayments in the event of a successful claim and so could still 
have come in useful.
Mrs H has also said that shes never needed to make a claim - but it is the nature of 
insurance to provide cover against  any unforeseen events and changes in circumstances. 
Mrs H has mentioned numerous holiday destinations that shes been to over recent years,  
but it is her circumstances at the point of sale in 2000 that is relevant in my consideration of 
her complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said, but overall I consider that Mrs H had a 
need for the policy and could have benefitted from it if shed been unable  to work due to 
illness or if shed lost her job. And she seems to have  found the policy  affordable.
Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont  consider  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs H isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Hs mis-sale complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9063630