K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that he wasnt happy with the way Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), treated him when  he made  it aware of his financial difficulties and with 
its subsequent  communications  with him.
background
Mr L took out a short  term loan for £400  with WCL on 23 January 2017. The loan was 
repayable by four monthly repayments  of £167.27.  Mr L was then made redundant and told 
WCL that he was in financial difficulties. Mr L wanted to set up a repayment arrangement by 
email as he was offshore  and unable to speak  to the lender by phone.  But WCL wouldnt 
agree to do this until around two months later. Mr L was also unhappy  that WCL continued to 
add interest and charges to his loan balance after it had been told of his financial situation. 
Mr L also complains about  WCLs customer service. He said that WCL responded to his 
multiple contacts with very limited communications and that it had used bully tactics. WCL 
offered to settle  the complaint by accepting £180 in settlement  of Mr Ls outstanding 
balance. But Mr L rejected this offer as it didnt  take account of his various complaint issues.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Shed considered  whether WCL had 
irresponsibly lent the loan and didnt think it had done so. She also said she didnt have 
enough information to comment on the way WCL had treated  Mr L when he was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators view.
Another adjudicator  then asked WCL for its contact  notes  and reviewed the complaint. She 
recommended that the complaint should  be upheld. She said that Mr Ls actions showed that 
he was in financial difficulties and hed made WCL aware of his difficulties. She could also 
see that WCLs communications  would have caused  Mr L upset and confusion. The 
adjudicator didnt think that Mr L had been treated in a positive and sympathetic  manner  
when he made WCL aware of his difficulties. 
So she recommended  that WCL should:
-apply the payments  Mr L had made  towards the loan capital and if necessary, write  off 
any outstanding  capital to settle  and close the loan in full;
-pay compensation of £150 directly to Mr L for the trouble and upset caused.
WCL hasnt provided  a response  to the second adjudicators view so the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not considered whether WCL irresponsibly lent to Mr L as he doesnt appear to have 
complained about this in his complaint to this service.
I can see that Mr Ls complaint is about the way WCL treated him after he fell into financial 
difficulties. I would expect  WCL  to have treated Mr L sympathetically and positively in 
Ref: DRN96487682relation to his financial  difficulties.  WCL has sent this service  its contact notes  which Ive 
reviewed to see if it did this.
I can see that Mr L contacted WCL on 17 March 2017 and asked to make a repayment by 
credit card. Five days later WCL responded to say that it couldnt  accept  payment  by credit 
card. So Mr L said that he wouldnt be making his payment. The following day WCL asked 
him for a reason  and Mr L said he was being  made redundant and wouldnt have the funds  
to part with. On the same day WCL said it could look to arrange a payment plan. Mr L said 
he could look at that as additional costs wouldnt help his situation and WCL asked him what 
he could pay. I dont think that WCL acted  unreasonably in its communications with Mr L 
until this point. 
It doesnt appear that Mr L responded to WCLs request. But he told WCL on 29 March  2017 
that hed not heard back from WCL. The following day WCL said that it wasnt permitted to 
negotiate repayments via email, but Mr L told WCL that he had no access  to a phone as he 
was at sea and would  have to do this by email. 
I can then see that rather  than trying to negotiate  a repayment plan by email  as Mr L had 
suggested, WCL sent him numerous chasing text messages and phoned  him almost daily.  
But it appears that on 7 April 2017 WCL spoke  to Mr L who told it he had just lost his job but 
it appears that hed asked  it for its bank details  to make a payment. Mr L made  a payment of 
£43 four days later. There is then a reference  to a payment  plan being  added  to Mr Ls 
account on 19 April 2017 and he made  a payment of £40 nine days later.  
Mr L then said in an email  on 4 May 2017 that he had entered into a repayment  plan to pay 
£40 per month. But in response WCL said that it couldnt set up a payment plan by email 
and that he should call it. Mr L responded to say that he was at sea with no access to a 
phone. WCL then told Mr L by email  that his account was with its legal team  and Mr L 
responded to say that hed been  made  redundant and had financial difficulties and asked to 
be put onto a plan. He wanted help rather than threatening letters.  A day later WCL said that 
£40 hadnt been agreed and asked Mr L to phone  it again. It appears  that WCL then agreed 
a repayment plan on 15 May 2017 and told this service that it had done so on 21 May 2017.
I can see from the contact notes that there  appeared to be a period of about a week from 
around 30 March 2017  until 7 April 2017  where  I dont think  WCL was responding 
appropriately to Mr Ls financial difficulties.
After Mr Ls conversation with WCL on 7 April 2017  where it appears  some sort of 
repayment had been agreed, there then appeared to be numerous  payment chasers  and 
requests by WCL for Mr L to call it when he was at sea without access to a phone. Ultimately 
it appears that a payment plan was agreed on 15 May 2017. Again I dont think  that WCL 
was responding  appropriately to Mr Ls difficulties for this period.
I then note that Mr L had queried the amount of interest  that was added to his account in 
April and May 2017 which was after hed told WCL that he was being made redundant. I can 
see that WCL told Mr L on 30 April 2018 that the interest was added in accordance  with the 
repayment scheme of £10 per month. I can see that Mr L might have found this response 
confusing as the arrangement to pay £10 per month  was made in September 2017.
I can also see that there were times when Mr L had raised queries with WCL but in response 
hed received what appeared to be automated communications  about  his arrears which I 
think would  have caused him further  upset.    
Ref: DRN96487683Overall I agree with the second adjudicator that WCLs communications would  have caused  
Mr L upset and confusion, and that Mr L hadnt  been  treated in a positive and sympathetic 
manner after he made WCL  aware  of his difficulties. I also agree  with her recommended  
award as an appropriate resolution  to this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, to:
1.Treat any payments Mr L has made to WCL as payments towards the loan capital 
and write  off any outstanding capital to settle and close the loan in full; and
2.Pay compensation of £150 directly to Mr L for the trouble and upset caused.
WCL must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If WCL considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9648768