K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2006  around  the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He says he 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident and sickness  only  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay £440 a month towards Mr Ss mortgage balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £12.52 a month although it was initially free 
for six months.  
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a site manager. He has told us he was entitled to full sick 
pay from his employer although he didnt specify how long his employer wouldve paid this 
for. YBSs records from 2006 indicate that Mr S told YBS he would have received sick pay 
for 30 days.  Mr S adds he wouldve received  redundancy pay through his employer and he 
also said he had some savings he couldve used towards repaying his mortgage  should he 
be unable to work. Mr S has said he had a medical condition diagnosed sometime before the 
sale. 
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2006. 
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN91301192The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN91301193General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN91301194-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and YBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ss mortgage  offer document which explicitly said that Mr S didnt 
have to take out any insurance through YBS. It also sets out the PPI under the heading 
optional insurance  and says PPI is being  arranged. Nothing on this offer document  indicates 
the PPI is compulsory. 
Mr S completed a separate PPI application form. In this form, he requested a benefit amount 
of £440, selected cover for accident  and sickness only (he could alternatively have selected 
full accident, sickness and unemployment or unemployment only), and he also selected an 
excess period of 30 days. This form explains the maximum benefit period the PPI offers  is 
12 months. He has signed this form to confirm all the selections  made.
I can also see that YBS sent Mr S an illustration  document before the PPI started (and 
before Mr S signed  and returned  his PPI application form)  this again  explained  hed be 
covered for accident and sickness only and it also set out the cost, benefit, benefit  period 
and excess period. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr S knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr S disagrees. Looking at what  
happened when  YBS sold Mr S the PPI, Im not persuaded  that it provided  advice. I say this 
because I havent  seen any evidence that YBS sought details of Mr Ss wider circumstances 
to assess the suitability of the policy, or that it gave him any form of tailored recommendation 
to take the PPI. 
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr S to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr S was unable 
to work through accident and sickness) and of the costs. Ive reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy  without any sense of what  
Ref: DRN91301195the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. As Ive mentioned above, the 
illustration document  YBS sent Mr S, set out the cover  provided as well as the cost and 
benefit. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr S agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think YBS gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that YBS ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer  loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found YBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S. So Ive gone 
on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable  to conclude Mr S suffered loss and 
damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether or not Mr S would have still taken 
out the policy, had YBS done  things properly. 
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN91301196As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of Mr S being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
I consider it more likely  Mr S knew what he would have to pay for the policy. The illustration  
document sent to him before he signed  and returned his application form had the exact  cost 
on there and he paid for the policy for a number of years. So, Im not persuaded Mr S found 
the cost unacceptable as he had been  given the exact figure prior to him competing his 
application form and the PPI starting.
Im also persuaded  YBS made clear exactly what Mr S would get back in return in the event 
he made a successful claim. His benefit amount was set out on his application form, 
mortgage offer document and the PPI illustration document.  So, I think its unlikely  Mr Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet his mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
As explained above, the information Mr S was given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S may have thought he had 
bought and what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms whether  
diagnosed or not that Mr S knew about  or ought to have known about before the start 
date of the policy; it also excluded claims relating to medical conditions for which 
Mr S had seen or arranged to see a doctor about  during the 12 months  immediately 
before the start date and which recurs  within 12 months of the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr S says he had a medical condition some  
time before the policy was taken out, and the policy might not have provided cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr S hasnt said he 
Ref: DRN91301197suffered any ongoing problems  with it since it was initially diagnosed nor has he said that he 
took any significant time off work  for it. So, I dont think  he wouldve envisaged that this 
would be the main reason hed need  to make a claim. Mr S also wouldnt have been  affected  
by any of the terms related to unemployment cover as he didnt buy unemployment cover.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr S needed  to be totally unable to do any work. I dont think this 
is likely  to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. After all, he 
bought cover if he couldnt  work  because of accident or sickness. So it seems  unlikely  he 
would have thought hed been able to make  a successful claim if he was still working. 
YBS told Mr S that any claim he made  would  be limited to a 12-month period. This was set 
out in his PPI application  form as well as the PPI illustration document.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr S was unable to work  through the accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr S would have  taken out the policy  in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S wouldnt  have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN91301198Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  out the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude YBS should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of YBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2006 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that YBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9130119