complaint
Mr H's representative has complained on his behalf about  the advice given to him in
1995 by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited (Sun  Life) to transfer his 
former employer's pension scheme benefits  to a personal pension  plan. 
It says:
 The personal  plan was not suitable.
 Mr H's attitude to risk was not properly  established.
 The fact find did not evidence full knowledge of Mr H's circumstances.
 There was no discussion  about the investment funds or risks.
 The adviser did not fully disclose the charges.
Mr Hs representative says that Mr H has been financially disadvantaged by Sun Lifes 
unsuitable advice.
background 
Mr H met with the adviser in March 1995.   He was employed and had preserved  pension  
benefits in an occupational Pension  Scheme (OPS).  The transfer value at the time was 
£39,131.73  which represented  12 years of pensionable service.  Mr H was aged 31 at the 
time and he has told us that his annual earnings  as an electrician were £18,000.
He had been  made  redundant and had used  the redundancy money to fund a house 
move as he and his wife needed a larger house.  They had some  other  limited  savings  
but used these to refurbish their new home.
The adviser completed a fact find at the time.  The normal  retirement age of the OPS  
was 60.  Mr H had expressed a desire  to retire earlier at age 55.
The fact find said that Mr H's attitude  to risk was a three out of five.  A transfer analysis  had 
been undertaken which showed that the critical yield at age 55 was 11.89% and at age 60, 
11.72%.
The adviser recorded that Mr H was willing to increase his risk rating because  at retirement 
with his current employer,  he would receive  a guaranteed pension of 50% of his final pay. 
There was also mention that Mr H was not convinced that he would not be made  redundant 
again in the future.
The adviser sent Mr H a suitability letter dated  18 April 1995.   Amongst other things, it said:
 Mr H could transfer the benefits to his new employer's  scheme but he did not wish to do 
this as he considered  he would not be with his new employer for very long.
 His attitude to risk was balanced. 
 The Section 32 Buyout option  was discussed  but discounted.
 The scheme  was in surplus but there  were no plans to improve  members benefits.
 There was a possibility  that the scheme could offer higher tax-free cash but taking this 
would reduce the overall critical  yield required at normal retirement .
 Due to Mr H's speculative risk rating,  there was a chance that the transfer would produce 
higher benefits.
Ref: DRN9279524Mr H's representative complained to Sun Life. It rejected  the complaint saying that Mr H 
had previously seen  three  IFAs who all recommended the transfer. In summary,  it said:
The advice matched his objectives for earlier retirement and higher  tax-free  cash . His 
employer's scheme  would offer a 50% income of his final salary  at age 60. Mr H was aware  
that the pension plan benefits were not guaranteed and relied  upon  investment performance.
The Section  32 plan was discussed  and discounted  given the restrictions  of this type of plan.
His attitude to risk was balanced but increased  to speculative because  of the 50% of final 
salary pension from his employer's scheme . Mr H personally selected the UK Equity Growth 
fund, Second Equity fund and Aggressive  Managed fund. Advisers  were  not permitted  to 
recommend investment funds. 
The fees and charges  were set out in the point  of sale documents  given to Mr H.
Mr H and his representative  were unhappy with this response. They referred  the complaint to 
this service.
Our adjudicator concluded the complaint should  be upheld  for a variety of reasons.
She said on the basis that Sun Life said that the scheme was in surplus  but there  were no 
plans to distribute the surplus to the members.   That may have been so at the time but Sun 
Life could not guarantee  that the trustees  would  not later change  their position.
She did not consider  that Mr Hs risk appetite should  have  been  classed as speculative.  In 
her view Mr H had neither the appetite nor the capacity to agree to the transfer with all its 
risks, for example  investment  returns and annuity  rate risk.
The regulator's  FVT assumption for Mr H's circumstances was 10.7%. The adviser said 
that the critical yield was 11.72%. This critical yield exceeded the benchmark of 10.7% 
which was intended  to match the risk profile of a medium risk investor .
In addition, providing documents to Mr H outlining the risks of the advice  does not validate 
unsuitable advice.  The key issue is if the advice was suitable.
  
Sun Life responded to our adjudicators conclusions. In summary, it said:
The transfer was subsequently recommended due to the ability  to retire early  and the 
potential for greater growth by then and to provide  greater tax free cash, it was also due to 
the clients change  to a speculative risk rating  because if he stayed with his employer  he 
would receive 50% of his salary at age 60, so he was already guaranteed a good  proportion 
of his final salary as a pension  and he could therefore take more of a risk with the portion 
being transferred. 
It then reiterated  its earlier  reasoning  as to why it rejected  this complaint.
Our adjudicator was not persuaded to change her view.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ref: DRN9279524I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our adjudicators conclusion that the transfer was unsuitable.
There is no evidence to show  that Mr H was an experienced investor  or had any particular 
pension or investment experience so I am not persuaded that the investment funds he 
apparently selected  were  done so on an informed basis.
I also note that at the time Mr Hs risk profile  was defined by Sun Life in its recommendation 
letter of 18 April 1995 as balanced.
The same letter went on to say:
As your transfer is estimated to represent 15% or more of your overall pension  provision . 
you were advised that the benefits to be transferred were estimated to represent  a 
significant percentage of that overall  provision. This was discussed and it was agreed 
that this did affect your risk rating  and for this transaction your risk rating is redefined as 
Speculative.
I do not agree  that a transaction  involving  a significant  percentage  of Mr Hs overall  
pension  provision  justified  an apparent  increase  in his capacity  for risk. In my view,  the 
opposite  should  have  applied.  I also note that balanced  and speculative  are not defined  
or ranked  in the recommendation  letter.  
In those  circumstances,  I am not persuaded  Mr H would  have  understood  that the transfer  
carried  significant  risks,  not least  in that the critical  yield  of nearly  12% meant  that his 
funds  had to increase  in value  by that amount  annually  to simply  match  the benefits  
foregone  by transferring.  
In other  words,  to exceed  the foregone  benefits,  (otherwise  there  was no point  in 
transferring),  would  have  required  Mr H to have  taken  investment  risks  he had neither  
knowledge  or experience  to manage.  
I have  noted  Sun Lifes  comment  that Mr H had previously  been  advised  to transfer  by 
other  advisers.  By implication,  it suggests  this made  its advice  to transfer  suitable.  I do not 
agree  that this is the case.  If Mr H was advised  elsewhere  to transfer  then that advice  was 
also unsuitable.   
For the above reasons,  I have concluded suitable  advice would have been for Mr H to remain in 
his former  employer's scheme  and so should be redressed by Sun Life Assurance of Canada  
(UK) Limited.
My aim is for Sun Life Assurance  of Canada (UK) Limited to put Mr H as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable  advice.
Sun Life Assurance of Canada (UK) Limited  must  undertake  a redress  calculation in line 
with the regulator's  pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out using the most  recent  financial  assumptions  published.
If the redress calculation shows a loss, the redress should if possible be paid into Mr H's 
pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Ref: DRN9279524The redress  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance which is likely to be the case here as Mr H does  not now have any 
earnings available for pension contributions.
If a payment into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% 
would have been taxed  according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement,  presumed to be 
20%. So a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ref: DRN9279524K820x#14Any redress  resulting from the loss assessment must be paid within  28 days  of my decision.  
In addition, Mr H has suffered trouble and upset in finding out this transfer  was not in his 
best interests and that he would suffer an avoidable  financial  loss in retirement. 
I therefore direct Sun Life Assurance  of Canada (UK) Limited to pay him an additional 
sum of £300  for his trouble  and upset.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Sun Life Assurance of Canada  (UK) Limited must redress Mr H as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9279524