K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that an adviser from Advance  Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF ) failed to 
record correct information when applying for their life and critical illness cover.  
They say this meant they have lost the opportunity  to make a claim on any policy.  Mr and 
Mrs B believe they should be compensated for this by receiving the payment they expected  
the insurer to make.   
background
Mr and Mrs B complain  about advice they received by an adviser from LT Mortgages 
Limited, while he was acting in a capacity  of an appointed representative  of AMF. AMF  
accepts responsibility  on that basis. 
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 12 February 2019. It is attached to this final 
decision and forms part of my complete determination.   
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that the adviser had misled Mr and Mrs B in respect  
of their policy application. He led them to believe that Mrs B was insured in the event of 
being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, when in fact the insurer  would have applied an 
exclusion for that condition due to Mrs Bs family history. Mr B had expressly asked  about  
MS and the adviser  had told him it was included  in the new cover. That was against a 
background where Mr and Mrs B had disclosed Mrs Bs family history to the adviser, with 
their previous policy having a specific MS exclusion.   
I therefore felt the complaint ought  to succeed.  
I didnt believe AMF was responsible for compensation amounting  to a lost MS claim since  
Id seen no evidence  Mrs B would have obtained  cover elsewhere without that exclusion and 
gone on to make a valid claim. But, I didnt find AMFs proposal  for the upset caused  to Mr 
and Mrs B was sufficient (noting it had offered them £750 for failing to update their address).
They relied on the adviser and they did not know the true nature of their policy  until they 
were told they couldnt claim at all. Mr B has told us how upsetting that has been at a time 
when Mrs B is struggling with her health. I therefore found that a payment  of £1500 ought  to 
be made for the significant distress  theyd suffered when  discovering they couldnt pursue a 
claim after all. 
AMF didnt have anything else to add. It said it had asked LT Mortgages for comments  and it 
shouldve supplied those  by 26 February  2019.  It otherwise agreed for the decision to be 
issued along the lines of the provisional findings, in the absence  of a reply  from the adviser.  
Mr and Mrs B said they accepted the decision, though they were disappointed that LT 
Mortgages wouldnt accept any wrongdoing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN99209772Having no further  comments  to consider within the timescales by either party, my findings 
remain unchanged from those set out in the attached provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out in my provisional findings, I uphold  this complaint. Advance 
Mortgage Funding Ltd (trading as Pink Home  Loans) must pay Mr and Mrs B £1500  for the 
upset they have been caused by the adviser from its appointed representative having misled 
them as to the nature of protection policy.  
If AMF has already paid £750 of the above sum to Mr and Mrs B it is entitled to deduct  this 
from the £1500 payment.  I make no other award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99209773copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that an adviser from Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF)  failed to record 
correct information when applying for their life and critical illness cover. 
They say this meant  they have  lost the opportunity to make a claim on any policy. Mr and Mrs B 
believe they should be compensated for this by receiving  the payment they expected the insurer to 
make.  
background
Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser from LT Mortgages Limited in 2015, to arrange  protection  policies 
when they were  purchasing a new home. LT Mortgages Limited was acting as an appointed 
representative of AMF for advising on both mortgages and protection  policies. 
Before the meeting with the adviser there was an email exchange with Mr B in August 2015 
discussing their mortgage and the cover. In that exchange, Mr B told the adviser that he and Mrs B 
had a family history of motor  neurone disease, multiple  sclerosis (MS), heart disease, and diabetes. 
At the time, Mr and Mrs B had existing joint level term life and critical illness cover with a sum assured  
of £98,000. This cover  had exclusions for MS for both life and critical illness  claims for Mrs B.  
The cover  was applied for in September 2015 after the adviser called Mr and Mrs B to complete the 
application. It offered Mr and Mrs B £247,000 of joint life cover  at a sum reflecting  their new mortgage 
liability. It also offered £75,000 of joint critical illness cover set up until 2041. Both sums  assured were 
on a level term basis. 
On 11 September 2015, the insurer sent a copy  of the policy application to Mr and Mrs Bs former 
address. It told them it was still considering their application. 
The policy came into force on 11 December  2015, shortly before Mr and Mrs B moved into their new 
home. The insurer applied a loading to the policy premium due to recorded  BMI information. It 
otherwise offered the cover on standard terms. The policy went on risk that same month,  and Mr B 
says he and Mrs B thought  their policy  loading  was because  of their family histories.  He was in 
contact with the adviser later in December 2015 and no mention was made of the terms.
Sadly, Mrs B was diagnosed with MS in November  2017. A claim was made to the insurer for critical 
illness benefit,  but the claim was refused because Mrs B ought to have disclosed  how one of her 
parents had also suffered from MS. If she had done so it wouldnt have applied  a life cover exclusion,  
but it would have excluded  any critical  illness claim for MS.  
The insurer did offer to underwrite the policy as if Mrs B had told it about her family history,  by 
applying an exclusion for critical illness  claims  going forward.   
Mr B brought  a complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs B to AMF  in February  2018. He pointed to the 
email exchange with the adviser,  and said he and Mrs B had expressly told him of her family  history of 
MS. He said the adviser had failed to record that on the application.  If he had done so then the insurer 
could have told them it was intending to apply an exclusion. In that circumstance, they could have 
sought specialist  insurance elsewhere.   
Mr and Mrs B also complained  that the adviser  failed to record that as of 1 July 2015 they moved  out 
of their old property as it had sold. They  lived at a temporary  address until December  2015 after which 
they moved into their new home.  However, the adviser  placed their old address on the insurance 
policy. This meant they were unable to review the cover or the lack of exclusions.   
Ref: DRN99209774AMF did not accept it was responsible for Mrs Bs loss of the opportunity to make an MS claim. It had 
spoken with the adviser and he said no mention was made of Mrs Bs family history during the 
telephone call. And it was their duty to prompt the adviser.  Even so, the insurer couldnt have insured  
Mrs B  it would have applied the same exclusion  as her previous policy. So, it said she couldnt have 
been insured on that basis anyway.  
AMF also said it didnt accept Mr and Mrs B would have sought  specialist cover elsewhere, since they 
hadnt done so when they took out their existing cover, which had the same  critical illness exclusion.  
And, the adviser could not have secured cover without an exclusion  from any of the insurers  he 
searched.  
However, it did partially uphold the complaint in respect of the advisers actions regarding Mr and Mrs 
Bs address   he ought to have checked to ascertain where they would be living.  For this, it offered  
£750 in full and final settlement of the complaint as a whole, when considering the disappointment 
caused to Mr and Mrs B. 
It appears that Mr and Mrs B rejected the offer. They brought  their complaint to this service  in late 
2018, where  it was considered by one of our investigators.  
Our investigator said the complaint should not be upheld.  He felt that since Mr and Mrs B could not 
likely have secured critical illness  cover  for MS, that AMF wasnt at fault. Though he recognised  they 
were disappointed, he felt £750  was adequate compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They made further points. In summary, they said:
the adviser led them  to believe MS was covered;
they disclosed it on several occasions;
they are unsure what else they could have done to protect themselves  they placed  their 
trust in AMFs  adviser  and he failed;
it seems like the adviser only acted in terms of securing commission;
cost wasnt an issue for the cover as they knew it had valuable  benefit hence asking for level 
rather than decreasing cover;
though costs  were mentioned, this was only a bargaining tactic   what  they wanted was 
insurance for the event of diagnosis of MS, and the adviser said they had this;
they only pursued with the advice based on the assurances given by the adviser. They  would  
otherwise have gone elsewhere. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my view differs from our investigator.  
Before I go any further, Id like to send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs B. In bringing the complaint,  Mr 
B has explained how difficult things have been  for them.  I recognise that, and I was sorry to learn of 
Mrs Bs diagnosis.  
Its my role to determine if AMF has acted unfairly, and if so, what  the reasonable redress for any 
error or inaction should be. Having done so I dont believe  AMF is liable for any claim payment of 
£75,000 or otherwise  (as Mr B has argued).
Nonetheless, I do believe it should have done more in respect of corresponding with Mr and Mrs B, 
making them  aware of the amended terms, and in holding their correct address. Ill explain my 
findings in more detail  below.  That means unless I receive any evidence  to change  my view, I intend 
to uphold the complaint in part.  
I know Mr B has expressed  his thoughts  in that the adviser may have been selective  in choosing 
which insurer to apply to, but I dont think thats the case. In the email chain  Mr B asks to proceed with 
Ref: DRN99209775the £45 premium  quote  previously received. If he or Mrs B had concerns  about  the type or number  of 
insurers quotes  were run for, Id expect to have seen evidence of that given the detail of discussions 
held beforehand.  
Im going to relay some  of the email chain here, as it is relevant to my findings. 
Mr B emailed the adviser on 28 August 2015 and asked:
Quick query,  are these prices set in stone or will they change/have terms applied if we have 
to answer a health check or family  history.
 
Our policy at the moment is very good and has a 50% discount through  [Mrs Bs] former work. 
A lot of policies excluded  many things as we have MND, MS, diabetes  and heart disease in 
the family.
The policy Mr and Mrs B held only had one exclusion, that being  MS for both life and critical illness 
benefit.  
The adviser  replied the same day, noting:
Nothing  is set in stone,  similar to mortgages  you have  to apply for them.  
What would  happen is that we would  complete an application, send it to the provider, they 
assess it and come back with terms for you to consider. If they increase the premium or insert 
any exclusions or clauses into the policy then there is no obligation for you to take the policy 
out at all. 
It doesnt  cost anything  to apply, apart from about 15 mins of your time to complete the 
application!
The adviser  was correct  in that the decision  on underwriting was one for the insurer. But he made 
clear to Mr B that if there was any change to the quote (price, exclusions), Mr and Mrs B would  have 
chance to consider that. Mr B goes on to confirm  to proceed with the £45 premium quote,  and asks 
for a form to complete.   
However, the adviser confirms that he would need to call Mr and Mrs B to complete the form. An 
application call was then scheduled for 1 September 2015.   
In the application, a policy question  asked:
Have any of your natural  parents, brothers or sisters, been  diagnosed with any of the 
following before their 65th birthday:
Breast, bowel/colon,  ovarian or other cancer? Diabetes, heart attack, angina,  stroke or heart 
disease? Multiple sclerosis, Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease, cardiomyopathy, motor 
neurone disease, polycystic kidney disease, Huntingtons disease, muscular  dystrophy, 
retinitis pigmentosa, polyposis coli or any other hereditary disorder? 
The application shows Mr B made a disclosure regarding  MND, and Mrs B regarding  diabetes. But, 
the application made no mention of Mrs Bs parent having been diagnosed  with MS.
There isnt a recording of the phone call held between Mr and Mrs B and the adviser. As it stands, I 
cannot determine conclusively what was said. Mr B expressly recalls telling the adviser of the family 
history (again) and AMF says it has asked the adviser who cannot  recall it. Where there is insufficient 
evidence as to the course of events,  I must  decide  what I think  likely  happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. 
Ref: DRN99209776In this case, I believe Mr and Mrs B likely  disclosed  it. They had told the adviser just days before  of 
their family history. It seems  to me to be very unlikely  that theyd go on to fail to disclose  one part of it, 
given the other disclosures.  
But, even if I was wrong about that, the adviser  was again placed on notice  as to what Mr and Mrs B 
hoped their cover  would  include.  
On 11 September, the adviser noted  the communication  from the insurer to Mr and Mrs B, and 
emailed Mr B again, saying:
I have good news, [the insurer has] accepted your application  without the requirements for 
medicals, GP reports or inserting exclusions  into your policy. They have however,  altered the 
premium from £45.18pm  to £54.92pm. Can you let me know  if this is ok or not? If you wanted 
to keep the premium the same as it was originally,  I can ask them  to reduce the level of cover 
slightly so that it brings the premium back down  if required?
There was a delay until December 2015. At that time, Mr B replied:
Finally  a few questions, happy  with the £54.92pm pending answers to the below. 
1.What do they class as critical  illness?  Is Multiple Sclerosis covered,  is Motor Neurone 
disease covered and would cancer have  to be terminal to be classed as critical?.
There were  additional points but these related to the policy term and portability.  The adviser replied to 
all of the points the same day. Specifically  in respect of point 1, he said:
Thanks for your mail, answers below; 
1)Ive attached  Zurichs  Key Features Document. The full list of conditions  are detailed on 
pages 10-11 and reading  it, it does cover Multiple  Sclerosis and Motor  Neurone  
[Disease]. Cancer is covered also and does not need  to be terminal.
Mr B confirmed he and Mrs B were  happy to go ahead. 
Unfortunately, it doesnt appear Mr and Mrs B sought to query why they were never  sent the policy  
application to check. But I agree they placed  reasonable  reliance on the adviser.  Firstly, he failed  to 
notice that the policy was applied for under the wrong address when it was clear (and accepted by 
AMF) that Mr and Mrs B moved to a temporary address  from July to December 2015.  
Secondly, he expressly told them the policys key features included  MS. He led them  to believe they 
were covered, despite  having been informed of their family history in writing, likely on the phone call, 
and it being reiterated as a key requirement  by Mr B.  
Notwithstanding Mr and Mrs B didnt get their policy applications (though it appears they did have 
their policy documents as they had moved by December 2015),  they had been misled into thinking  
this new insurer offered them critical  illness  insurance  in the event of MS. This remained the case until 
the insurer  declined the claim  and applied  the correct terms  had the right answers been given in 
September 2015.  
It is clear the adviser failed to act in Mr and Mrs Bs required interests when arranging the policy by 
making various mistakes as Ive outlined  above. 
putting things  right 
When considering the redress  for a wrongdoing by a business, I need to look at what  ought  to have 
happened at the time, had the mistake not occurred.  
Ref: DRN99209777In this circumstance,  Mr and Mrs B would have told the insurer about Mrs Bs family  history of MS and 
an exclusion would have been applied.  That is what has now happened. No claim  would ever have 
been payable by the insurer. 
I take the point Mr B makes that he and Mrs B wouldnt  have gone ahead  with AMFs 
recommendation. But even if they did not do so, I am not persuaded that they would  have 
successfully sought insurance for Mrs B anywhere  else that did not include a policy exclusion for MS. 
They already had insurance with that very exclusion. 
AMF has approached  a broker  for several other insurers who have each confirmed no such  cover 
would be given. Thats also my experience with this condition  there is an increased likelihood of MS 
in families with a previous  diagnosis. Insurers seek to place policy exclusions for such  likelihoods as 
they operate on a risk and cost basis. Its for that reason the insurer asked the question  on the 
application.  
I cannot therefore propose  a sum of money equivalent to the claim value (£75,000) be paid to Mr and 
Mrs B now as I do not believe Mrs B could likely  have  obtained any insurance for that event. 
But I believe  that the errors from AMFs adviser compounded matters significantly. He misled Mr and 
Mrs B by confirming  the offer they had had was 1) without exclusions and 2) included MS. And in not 
ensuring the insurer had the right address,  they did not receive the policy questions  for review to alert 
them to the fact the adviser had made mistakes. 
AMF says that Mr and Mrs B did receive  an incorrectly  addressed mortgage quote in early July. But it 
also accepts they had moved by then. The email correspondence that followed  indicates  Mr and Mrs 
B hadnt had sight of the insurers letter.  
Though they might  have  had a prior exclusion on their existing cover, but Mr and Mrs B are unlikely to 
know what other insurers may do when seeking insurance several years later.  They  relied on the 
adviser and they did not know the true nature of their policy until they were  told they couldnt  claim  at 
all. Mr B has told us how upsetting that has been at a time when Mrs B is struggling  with her health.  
In these circumstances, we can make awards for distress  and upset caused by a business. It is 
unclear if the £750 was paid to Mr and Mrs B, given it was written in such  a way as to compromise 
their right to complain  here. Nonetheless, I dont  find that sum to be sufficient. I believe a sum of 
£1500 is warranted. This is within the types of award wed make for substantial distress.
my provisional  decision
I propose to uphold this decision for the reasons set out above.  
I now invite  the parties to provide our investigator with any further submissions they may wish to make 
by 26 February 2019. Following this, I will issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9920977