K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Red Sands Insurance  Company  (Europe) Limited turned down his claim 
for the theft of his pedal  bicycle. My references to Red Sands include its agent.
background 
Mr I had a bicycle insurance  policy, insured by Red Sands. He claimed  for the theft of his 
bike and gave Red Sands  the following details about the theft.
Mr Is bike was stolen from a bike storage room  in the basement  of the block  of flats where  
he lives, within the underground car park. The bike storage  room  is surrounded by floor to 
ceiling metal bars and has one door which is opened by an electronic fob. Mr I says the fob 
is only given to residents  of the block and for a non-resident to enter the bike storage area 
they would  need to gain forcible entry to the underground car park then the bike storage  
area. Mr Is bike was locked to metal bars cemented into the floor with a certified gold 
standard lock.
Mr I says the thief somehow got into the underground car park and cut through the bicycle  
store room  metal poles  using heavy duty machinery to gain access to the bike storage room. 
The thief cut through the lock which attached  the bike to the metal bar and left it on the floor.  
Mr I sent Red Sands  photos of the room  where  his bike had been stored, the damage to the 
storage room and broken lock and evidence that he said showed the lock was of the 
standard required by the policy.
Red Sands  declined the claim  for two reasons. First, it said Mr Is bike was stored in an area 
not covered by the policy as the storage room didnt meet  the policy definition of home. 
Second the bike wasn't covered for theft away from home as the theft was from outside 
(his) home which the policy didnt cover.
Red Sands letter to Mr I also said:
we are specialist cycle  insurers  who specifically  set underwriting criteria which  match 
the risk created  by cycle storage in densely occupied  buildings, particularly in 
London. It is also unfortunately our experience that the likelihood of theft resulting 
from the direct action of residents or the level of passive neglect which occurs in 
multiple-occupant buildings is extremely high. there  is no limitation on its access  
(to the storage area) It is for this reason that we insist  on the containment  of that 
risk through the various storage and security requirements we stipulate in the 
contract documentation.
Mr I complained to us. He said he thought a fully enclosed and secure bike storage room  in 
an underground  garage which is privately  accessed  just by the flat occupiers would meet the 
policy requirements. Also, given  Red Sands  comments  about  it not wanting  to cover theft 
from bike storage areas in densely occupied buildings, it should have been made much 
clearer to him that keeping a bike in a secure  room in a communal area with very limited 
access wasnt covered.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim.
Ref: DRN99964712Mr I disagreed and wanted  an ombudsman decision.  He said if his bike wasnt  stored inside  
his home  as defined  by the policy it can only have been stored  away from the home,  which 
the policy doesnt define.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
the policy terms
Ive looked at the policy schedule and the policy document Red Sands sent us. The policy  
schedule says that Mr Is bike is covered for theft up to a maximum amount of £10,000 
subject to a £100 policy excess. The schedule says Mr Is bike is insured for £2,000.
The key issue is whether the bike was stored  at home as the policy defined and required.
The policy includes  a summary/key facts  which sets out the key policy  features, benefits  and 
any significant limits or exclusions. The policy refers the policyholder to the full policy 
wording for full details.
On page 2 under the policy summary  under What  is Covered, it says Theft of your bicycle 
and/or accessories:
We will replace Your Bicycle  and/or  Accessories  up to the value of the Benefit Limit  
noted on Your Schedule, if Your Bicycle  and/or  Accessories are stolen during the 
Period of Insurance, as follows (the policy then lists whether the bike will be replaced 
on a new for old or like for like basis, depending  on its age and whether it was 
purchased new).
The policy summary  lists under What  is not Covered? Significant Exclusions or Limitations 
the following:
Any theft which is not reported to the police and a crime reference number received.
Any theft subject  to Abandonment.
Any theft where the item is found within 14 days of being stolen.
Accessories or removable parts, unless Your Bicycle is stolen at the same  time.
Theft away from Your Home if Your Bicycle  was not locked with an Approved
Lock to an Immovable Object or kept in a locked vehicle.
Theft from Your Home or vehicle unless there is proven forcible or violent entry.
Any claim for more than the Market Value or Benefit  Limit.
Applicable Excess.
Various terms are defined  in the policy.  The policy defines Your Home on page 9 as:
Your Home means the location, as stated on Your Schedule,  where Your Bicycle is 
normally kept and meets the requirements  of one of the following;
a brick, concrete  or stone  house of standard construction  with a slate, tiled or multi  
layered roof;
Ref: DRN99964713a) a self-contained flat within a brick, concrete or stone building  of standard 
construction with a slate, tiled or multi  layered roof;
b) a self-contained lockable private  room  in the halls of residence in which You 
reside.
c) a privately  accessed, fully enclosed, outbuilding or garage built of brick, concrete 
or stone  and roofed with slate, tiles or multi  layered roof; attached  to or within  the 
boundaries of a private house  securely  locked by a minimum of a 5 lever Mortice  or 
Chubb deadlock  to BS3621 standard or a CEN  Grade 3 closed shackle padlock and 
have securely locked windows.
d) a privately accessed and securely locked wooden shed, within the secured 
boundaries of Your primary residence provided  Your Bicycle is secured therein to an 
Immovable Object  through the frame  and any quick release wheels with an Approved 
Lock
e) any temporary residence  such as a holiday cottage/home, guesthouse, hotel or 
like for a maximum period  of 30 days during the Period of Insurance, providing the 
area of the temporary residence  You inhabit  is self-contained  and secured to same 
standard as Your  primary residence.
The specific  exclusions  Red Sands say apply to Mr Is claim are:
theft from Your Home where  Your Bicycle  and/or Accessories is stored outside Your  
Home.
theft unless there is proven forcible or violent  entry to Your Home  where the 
bicycle  was kept.
was the policy clear?
Ive seen the photos of where  Mr I bike was stored when stolen. The storage room looks 
very secure.  Mr I says there is no lawful access to the underground  carpark  or storage room  
to the general  public,  only people who live in the flats.
After Mr I claimed Red Sands clearly  told him it didnt want to insure the risk of a bike in a 
bike store  in a densely occupied building. But I don't think Red Sands made  that sufficiently 
clear to Mr I in the policy summary which doesnt say that home has a particular definition 
or that it specifically didnt  want to insure  a bike securely stored in room that was part of a 
block of flats. If that information had been  clear  I dont  think  Mr I would have  bought the 
policy.
Ive also considered whether Red Sands has reasonably declined  the claim given the bike 
storage arrangements  it will cover under the policy definition  of 'home'.
The policy says home can include:
d) a privately accessed and securely locked wooden shed, within the secured 
boundaries of Your primary residence provided  Your Bicycle is secured therein to an 
Immovable Object  through the frame  and any quick release wheels with an Approved 
Lock.
I think a privately securely locked  wooden shed is akin to the secure bike storage room,  
which Mr I has evidenced, that can only be accessed by flat occupiers. The bike storage 
room is within the secure  boundaries  of Mr Is primary residence  as its within  and part of 
his block of flats. A strict interpretation  of d) above could be that the bike can be locked  in a 
Ref: DRN99964714wooden shed in someones garden. A garden could  be easily accessible by the general 
public. I think the bike storage  room where Mr I had his bike is at least as secure and 
privately accessed as such an arrangement. I think Mr I could reasonably understand that he 
had taken appropriate steps  to store his bike securely.
Mr Is bike was attached  to an immovable  object (the metal bars)  when stolen and 
Red Sands  hasnt disputed that the bike had an approved lock.
The key facts say a theft from Mr Is home is excluded unless theres proven forcible or 
violent entry. Im satisfied from the evidence Mr I provided that there  was proven forcible or 
violent entry.
I dont think Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim. As I think Mr Is bike was in 
effect stored  at home I dont need  to decide  whether  Red Sands could have fairly declined 
the claim on the basis that the bike was outside his home.
Red Sands  must pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms subject  to the policy  
limit and excess, plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr I said he had no further information to add. Red Sands accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept  my provisional  decision  Ive no reason to change my mind.  For the 
reasons Ive given  in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands  must pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms subject  to the policy  
limit and excess, plus interest  as Ive detailed below,  as its now agreed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr Is claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms subject to the policy limit and excess. It should add interest* to the 
claim payment at 8% simple from the date of claim to the date of settlement, as its now 
agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr I how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9996471