K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs B in 2005.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B if he couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed  to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent given much information about the policy  when it was sold,  
and that Halifax  didnt give them a proper choice about whether to buy it. Ive noted 
everything theyve said,  and Ive also looked  at the paperwork that was completed at the 
time.
I note that Halifax  completed  a Demands and Needs statement for Mr and Mrs B. This said,  
amongst other things:
You have  confirmed that you are working and have applied for a mortgage. You therefore  
require peace  of mind  that should your income stop unexpectedly this cover  will help to pay 
your monthly mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN91926302The document went on to make  a recommendation to take the PPI cover. But I think  the 
document did enough to make it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to accept the 
recommendation. So overall, from what  Ive seen, I think Halifax  made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that the PPI was optional, and they chose to take it out.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Mr B was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr B wasnt entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness  or 
accident, but he says he and Mrs B had some savings. But having the policy  in place would  
mean Mr and Mrs B could use their savings  to pay for other  expenses  if Mr B couldnt work. 
So I think Mr and Mrs B would  have  had some use for the policy  despite  the savings they 
say they had. 
-Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs B needed  
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they agreed  to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192630