K822xcomplaint
Mr T has complained about his home  insurer Legal & General Insurance  Limited (L&G). 
He says it delayed  his water damage claim and did poor work.
background
A leak occurred at Mr Ts home  on 3 April 2017.  L&G appointed a loss adjuster, a contractor 
and a drying company. Strip out works  were  recommended and some  of these were done by 
18 May. The rest were  completed by 1 June  and the property was declared dry about a week  
later. Most of the reinstatement  work was completed by 14 July 2017.  Mr T had concerns 
about the quality of the work though and complained to L&G.
L&G accepted that there had been  delays during  the early stages of the claim which had 
caused the reinstatement to last longer  than it shouldve  done. It also noted issues with the 
repairs. It offered £150 compensation for the upset caused and said the contractor would 
review the problem identified with the laminate. In a further letter  L&G said its adjuster would 
re-attend to assess  the poor works,  look at the quality of a vanity unit it had fitted and 
discuss a problem with the bathroom tiles. A further £100 compensation was offered.
Mr T remained  unhappy  and complained to this service. Our investigator noted that an offer 
for replacing  the vanity unit had been  made and L&G also confirmed  to our investigator it 
would pay a reasonable cost for labour for fitting  the item. Our investigator felt that L&G 
should replace  the bathroom  tiles and it agreed. It also agreed to pay further compensation 
also recommended  by our investigator. Regarding the laminate flooring, our investigator 
noted that L&G had still been  unable  to visit the property and said to both sides that any 
finding about L&Gs liability for the flooring  should be left for a later complaint.
Mr T said he felt our findings were unfair. But also said he had nothing  else to add. The 
complaint was passed to me for consideration. I issued a provisional decision as I felt L&G 
didnt fairly  need  to replace the bathroom floor tiles and I thought it should replace the 
hallway laminate. My findings were:
I often  am only able to assess  matters  up to the point of a final response issued by the 
insurer. Here L&G has issued two; one in August and one in September 2017.  But it has also 
consented to our investigator looking at things beyond these dates and up until its re-
assessment visit to Mr Ts home in October  2017. Therefore, Im going to take that meeting 
and the findings made  during it into account  in assessing Mr Ts complaint. And Ill use this 
date as well in considering what upset Mr T has been caused  by any failings  of L&G.  I wont 
take into account anything that happened after this date.
Mr T has said his carpet wasnt fitted properly. Im not sure in what area the carpet was/is 
located. I know  some concerns were raised  about this by Mr T but they dont seem to have 
been answered by L&G in its final responses or considered when it re-visited the property. If 
this issue still needs addressing then the parties need to let me have more details in 
response to this provisional decision.
The loss adjuster, during the re-visit, accepted that the new vanity  unit wasnt  acceptable.  It 
was noted that Mr T had found what he felt was a suitable unit. The loss adjuster offered to 
pay Mr T £180  being the price of the replacement unit and an allowance of £80.00 (not 
including VAT) for fitting. Mr T thought the contractors should obtain the unit and fit it. I think, 
in the circumstances here, the loss adjusters offer was reasonable. Its contractor seems to 
have been unable to complete satisfactory  work  at Mr Ts property and whilst it could appoint  
another it seems  to me the fitting  of a single small unit isnt a large job and should  be 
Ref: DRN92055762something Mr T should easily be able to get done  himself. I havent seen that it will cost Mr T 
more than £80 for fitting either. I think this is a reasonable sum but if Mr Ts costs for fitting 
the unit exceed £80.00  and/or  include  VAT he should send his invoice to L&G for it to pay 
any additional sum.
Im not going  to make L&G replace Mr Ts bathroom floor tiles. It seems  L&G made  a 
mistake in fitting ceramic tiles instead of porcelain  ones  like Mr T had before. But I cant see 
that the incorrect type makes any real difference to Mr T. The tiles arent like what  he had 
before that is true  but as far as Im aware  there  is little appreciable difference between  
ceramic and porcelain; they feel and look the same and they are both suitable for use as 
floor tiles. So I dont think L&Gs error  has really  affected Mr T in any way. And I wouldnt find 
it fair to make it take on major work  in this sort of situation. If it had fitted tiles that were only 
meant to be used as wall tiles, or tiles with a smooth finish when the previous had been  
textured, or of a different,  non- agreed colour   then that might give me cause to say L&G 
should replace  them  on a like basis as to what was there before. But Im not minded to say it 
should here. And in saying this Im also mindful  that regardless of them  being  porcelain or 
ceramic, Mr T did pick the tiles that were laid.
The laminate  in the hall seems to have  two problems. One area by the lounge  door has no 
support under it. The contractor has agreed to resolve this area but says this is to be done 
as a goodwill  gesture.  It says the reason for the problem is that Mr T had private work done  
in the lounge and that contractor removed the packing under the hall laminate. From what  
Ive seen the loss adjuster has taken its contractors  word on this issue (probably,  and not 
necessarily unreasonably because it is agreeing to sort the issue). It doesnt  seem to have 
asked Mr T about this. The photos  Ive seen of the area dont look as though flooring in the 
lounge has been  worked on. But given what I have to say about the second issue  this factor  
falls away.
Mr T reported that the flooring  moved a lot. The contractor had initially suggested this is just 
the nature  of the floor. The loss adjusted during the re-visit seems  to accept that some 
movement is to be expected. But the conclusion that is reached  having seen the flooring is 
that the amount of movement is excessive. It was felt that this could be a fitting issue but 
was most likely to do with the sub-floor not being  prepared properly prior to fitting. Its also 
noted the laminate is bowed.
It isnt clear to me if the laminate that was in place  at the time of the leak was ever replaced  
or if it was just re-laid after drying.  But the photos Ive seen show  flooring that is heavily 
marked and doesnt  look particularly new.
What I have seen in the file is that after drying the contractor initially  fitted the laminate 
incorrectly. Immediately after it had been  laid, Mr T noted problems. The contractor admitted 
it had laid it without putting a hardwood base down; so it went out, lifted the laminate, fitted 
the base and re-laid the flooring. It was then within only a short  span of time again, a matter  
of weeks, that Mr T complained of the further  problems that led to the re-visit and the loss 
adjusters conclusions.
So the contractor  has failed twice to provide satisfactory repairs  in respect  of the flooring. 
And the flooring is bowed. Im not convinced it would withstand lifting and re-laying again   
but even if it would, I havent seen that in being re-laid the bowing could be resolved.
Ref: DRN92055763Based on everything  Ive seen I think L&G fairly  now needs to have a new contractor attend 
Mr Ts home,  lift the existing  laminate along with the hardwood base, check  the sub-floor and 
do any work necessary  to ensure replacement laminate flooring can be satisfactorily laid on 
top, and lay this.
Mr T has also noted that the finished  work was poor in respect of nail heads  being left proud 
of the wood and the door divider strip between the hall and the bedroom is loose. The 
bedroom door-strip will be resolved when the hall floor is re-laid. I understand its been 
stressful for Mr T to have nails sticking out as he has young children in the house. I also 
accept that having to have work  re-done, such as the first time the flooring had to be re-laid, 
would have been inconvenient. And the prolonged repair period due to L&Gs delays meant  
the family  had to manage with the reduced  facilities  within their home for around two months  
longer than they should have done. I think a total of £600 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due.
response to my provisional  decision
L&G said it accepted  my findings. Mr T said he agreed with only some  of my findings. 
Regarding the bathroom floor tiles Mr T has said the ones he had were  black and 
textured. What  he has now are white and smooth. He says he chose the white ones 
because that was the only ceramic tile option available in the shop he went  to. He said it 
isnt just the type and style that is an issue though. The tiles were fitted poorly and 
unevenly. The loss adjuster has been  told about  this.
Mr T said hed just resolve  the carpet  issue himself. 
He said he is still having an issue with a loose bath panel allowing water to drip down 
through to the downstairs toilet.
He said £600 compensation wasnt enough given  everything he and his family had 
been through.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not minded  to accept that the large national retailer only had one type of ceramic  tile in 
stock. But even if they did, Mr T could have  visited  another retailer  or a different branch or 
checked on-line  for that same retailer and ordered items that way. Ultimately,  regardless of 
any error L&G made in stating what type of tile he could  have,  he was at liberty to pick any 
style and finish of tile he wanted  to. I remain of the view,  in light of the choice Mr T had and 
made, that it would be unfair to require L&G to lift the currently  fitted tiles and re-lay new ones.
Im not minded  to think that there  is an issue with quality of work in respect of the bathroom tiles. 
Mr T hasnt  raised this with this service previously. He told us about various poor work  but 
regarding the bathroom flooring his issue was that ceramic tiles instead of porcelain had been 
laid. Ive also seen  the loss adjusters notes from a visit in September 2017. He notes that 
regarding the bathroom flooring there were no workmanship issues  or problems due to how the 
repair had been  carried out. Im not persuaded, on the balance of the evidence  Ive seen, that it 
would be fair to conclude the bathroom  flooring was laid poorly such that it needs  replacing. 
Ref: DRN92055764As neither party have  provided any further detail for me to consider regarding the carpet Im 
not going to make any finding in this respect.
The bath panel  wasnt an issue  previously  brought to L&Gs  attention. Im not sure how a 
loose panel could cause a leak down  into the floor below. I accept that some drips or 
condensation from the edge  of the bath might  slip in but as the panel isnt fitted  flush  any 
drips should  dry. So Im not convinced the two are connected  and Mr T may want to check  to 
see if there is a leak occurring somewhere under the bath. In any event  if Mr T has been  
using the bath knowing there  is an issue causing  damage then I cant  fairly blame L&G for 
that or reasonably require it to fix any water  damage downstairs.
But Mr T shouldnt have  a bath panel that isnt fitted  properly.  Ive seen the photos of this 
and given the other repair issues  that have arisen  at his home I dont doubt this has resulted 
from poor work by L&Gs contractor.  So Ill require L&G to rectify this alongside  the 
arrangements it makes for lifting and replacing the laminate flooring.
I do understand that this was an incredibly difficult time for Mr T. I have  to separate  though 
the distress caused  by delays and poor work  from that which would always be suffered 
following a water leak like this. L&G is responsible for the latter.  Having looked  at everything 
Im still satisfied that a total of £600 is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances here.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Legal  & General  Insurance  Limited to:
Pay Mr T £180 to purchase and fit the vanity unit.
If Mr T fits the unit and it costs him more and he provides proof of this, pay the 
additional sum.
Arrange with a different  contractor  to lift the flooring and base, examine the sub-floor, 
make it good for laying  replacement  laminate, including  the area in the lounge  doorway, 
and fit the new laminate.
Arrange to amend/re-fit the bath panel.
Pay Mr T a total of £600  compensation (if £250  has already been received by Mr T it will 
now only have  to pay a further £350).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9205576