K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent him money he couldnt 
afford to repay. He wants  a refund of interest and charges applied  to the loans.
background
Mr M took out three  instalment loans with Mr Lender between July 2016 and August 2017. 
Mr M borrowed £500 in July 2016. He repaid this over six monthly instalments, the highest  of 
which was £271.
Mr M borrowed £750 in February 2017. He repaid this loan by six monthly instalments, the 
highest of which was £287.
Mr M took out his third and final loan in August 2017. He was due to repay  the £650 loan by 
six monthly instalments,  the highest of which was £259. Mr M hasnt finished repaying loan 
three.
Mr Lender said that Mr M declared a net monthly  income of £3,000  with outgoings  totalling  
£2,550. Mr Lender said that this meant  all the loans were affordable for Mr M. 
Before this service became involved, Mr Lender offered to write off the outstanding  balance 
on loan three.
The adjudicator didnt recommend upholding Mr Ms complaint. He thought that Mr Lenders 
checks went far enough. Based on what Mr M told Mr Lender and what it knew  about him 
from the credit checks carried out, the adjudicator thought that it was reasonable of Mr 
Lender to agree each loan.
Mr M doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation.  Mr M says the fact that he took 
out loans two and three  immediately on repaying the previous loan, indicated an unhealthy 
pattern of lending. 
Mr M has asked  us to consider his credit report that shows he was in an arrangement  to pay 
off arrears on his mortgage and utility accounts.
Mr M says he had a number of other current payday  loans at the time that he was borrowing 
from Mr Lender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr M could  afford to repay each loan before it lent to him. These checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Ref: DRN97818742Mr Lender has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr M about his monthly  income and 
outgoings, including any regular financial credit commitments.  Based on the information that 
Mr M gave  for each loan application, it looked  as though he had around £450 in disposable  
income. 
Mr Lender also carried  out credit checks each time that didnt show anything of concern  such  
as a default within the previous three years. As the adjudicator has told Mr M, a lender wont  
always seem  the same  level of detail  on a credit check that a consumer  can see in their own 
credit report.  This means, for example, that the credit checks  that Mr Lender carried out as 
part of Mr Ms application,  didnt show any arrears or other  short term loans. 
I think it was reasonable  of Mr Lender to have a degree of confidence that Mr M had given it 
accurate information  about his financial situation.  Based  on the information that Mr Lender 
had, it looked  as though  Mr M could afford to repay each loan.
I take account of what Mr M says about asking to borrow more money immediately on 
repaying loans  one and two. But the maximum repayments on loans two and three 
represented a relatively modest proportion of Mr Ms monthly  net income. And Mr M asked to 
borrow £100 less when he applied for loan three.  
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I dont  think Mr Lender missed any obvious 
signs of a dependency on short term lending that shouldve prompted it to ask Mr M more 
questions than it did.
I appreciate that Mr M owed money  to other  short term lenders when he took out loans two 
and three.  But unless Mr M had mentioned this at the time,  I wouldnt have expected what I 
consider to have  been proportionate checks wouldve  revealed  Mr Ms other payday lending 
commitments to Mr Lender.
Mr Lender has offered to write off the outstanding balance  on loan three and then close the 
loan. As I dont find Mr Lender  has done anything wrong, I cant  require it to do more  than 
this. I leave it with Mr M to let Mr Lender  know if he wants to accept  the offer that it has 
made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I consider Mr Lender has 
already offered to do enough. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9781874