K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with PSA Finance 
UK Limited,  trading as Autobank Financial services  (PSA), has been  mis-sold to her.
background
Ms P took receipt of a used car in February  2017.  She financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with PSA.
In the summer  of 2017 she was involved in an accident and was shocked  to hear from her 
insurer that the car she was financing had previously been  written  off after it had been 
stolen.
She complained to PSA. She said if shed known  this information at the point of supply she 
would not have proceeded with the deal.
PSA said they completed a Hire Purchase  Investigation (HPI) check when the finance  
agreement was arranged.  They  said the car wasnt recorded as stolen and there was no 
record of it being  written off. They said that still seemed to be the case. So they didnt feel 
they could be held responsible for the car not initially being recorded  correctly.
They rejected Ms Ps complaint and she therefore  referred it to this service where our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  She agreed  with PSA. She didnt think it would be 
reasonable to hold them responsible for the mis-sale of the vehicle  when theyd completed 
the necessary  checks and those checks hadnt revealed any problems.
But Ms P was dissatisfied with the adjudicators opinion and she therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms P so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms P acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented to Ms P. If it was and she was not told something  that would have changed 
Ref: DRN92206512her view about entering into the agreement,  then Id ask PSA to take some action to put 
things right.
I think its clear  here that if Ms P knew  about the previous write off she would not have  
entered into the deal that she did. However, I dont think it would be fair to hold PSA 
responsible as Im persuaded that they did carry out the checks I would expect of them  and 
that those checks  did not show that the car had previously been  stolen  or written off.
I say that because Ive reviewed the HPI check that was completed by the dealership  in 
January 2017  just before Ms P took receipt of the car. The registration number and vehicle 
identification numbers  are the same  as for the car Ms P financed.  So Im satisfied  it was for 
the right car. The check says the vehicle is not an insurance write off and has not been  
reported as stolen. 
I think its therefore likely that the necessary files have not been  updated when the car was 
stolen and written off. But it would not be fair for me to suggest this is PSAs  fault. At the 
point of supply  they appear to have had no way of knowing  the car had been  previously  
written off. Ms Ps claim therefore seems  to lie elsewhere but Im afraid  I dont think  it would 
be fair to hold PSA liable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9220651