K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint about Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) is that it wont  honour  a deposit 
that was paid into his account.
background
Mr A says that in February 2019 his friend  visited a Barclays  branch and paid £7,125  cash 
into Mr As account. Mr A says he checked  his online banking the same day, and the money  
showed as a cash deposit, and available to spend.  However, the deposit was subsequently 
reversed by Barclays, and Mr A wants the money  back.
Mr A complained to Barclays,  and it explained that the money was paid in via cheque, not 
cash. It admitted  that its system made  a mistake  in categorising the transaction and showing 
on Mr As online banking  as a cash deposit,  but that it had proof  it was actually a cheque. 
And it hadnt been able to process the cheque as it wasnt payable  to Mr A, and also that the 
value of it had been altered from £1.25  to £7,125 when  it was being paid in.
Mr A refuted  this and brought his complaint to our service. In this he said he was certain  the 
money was paid in by cash. He said he was out of pocket, and this event had damaged a 
good friendship. He believed  Barclays had made  a mistake,  and that its systems werent 
reliable, and he wanted it to pay him the £7,125. He conceded he didnt have  a receipt  from 
when the money  was paid in, which would show in what form it was submitted  cash  or 
cheque.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and spoke with both parties,  obtaining further evidence. 
On the basis of this, he concluded that he couldnt uphold  the complaint and ask Barclays to 
pay Mr A the £7,125  he believed hed lost. This was because he was satisfied on the 
evidence that the deposit was a cheque, and that the money wasnt  paid in in cash.  This 
meant that until the cheque cleared, the money  was never actually held in Mr As account, or 
belonged to him. And that the true value of the cheque was actually only £1.25, and payable 
to a third party.
Mr A still disagreed. He felt our Investigator was siding with Barclays because  it was a big 
organisation. He asked  for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. 
There simply isnt the evidence that would allow me to do so.
I know my decision will be very disappointing to Mr A. But Id like to explain why its the only 
fair one I could reach, noting that my role is to reach  an outcome on the evidence, which is 
fair to both parties. 
Mr A wants  me to accept  that his friend deposited  £7,125 cash into his account   which 
would have become available  for him to use immediately  i.e. his money  from the point of 
deposit. But the only evidence he has of this is his online banking screenshot which  says 
that a cash deposit was made.  
Ref: DRN98008842Barclays has told us this is a mistake, and that its a known fact that its systems sometimes 
show cheque payments as cash. It accepts how unhelpful this is and is looking at how to fix 
it. 
In the meantime, it seems  to me that Mr As relying on the existence  of this fault to cast into 
doubt Barclays entire paying-in  process,  and I dont  think thats  fair. Ive seen no evidence  to 
suggest that there was anything wrong with the arithmetical and processing part of deposits 
being made to accounts. And Ive also seen that on the day in question, the branchs 
reconciliation of cash, cheques, etc., was straightforward and balanced. So there  wasnt an 
extra £7,125 that had failed to make it into a customers account.
Barclays says its certain  that the deposit  was made  by cheque,  and not cash. And Im 
persuaded by this. Not only from the evidence  Ive seen, but in the knowledge that had it 
been cash, there would  never  have  been  an opportunity to reverse the deposit. However, in 
a cheque clearing  system  there are such opportunities.  And due to the problems with this 
particular cheque  both in respect  of who it was payable do, and the fact that the amount  
was altered  are the very reasons the money  wasnt paid into Mr As account.  
I cant say that this is Barclays fault. Im satisfied that the deposit  was made by cheque, and 
Mr A isnt able to offer any evidence to the contrary.  And Im also satisfied that given the 
issues with the cheque,  Barclays was unable to and didnt cash it. This means that Barclays  
doesnt have the £7,125 Mr A expected to receive; it didnt lose this money;  and doesnt  now 
need to return  it to him.
For these reasons, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong, and I wont  be upholding the 
complaint. I hope  Ive clearly explained why.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9800884