K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains that a used car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  She also complains that she was 
sold an extended warranty  which is now worthless as the garage has ceased trading.
background 
In April 2018  Miss G entered  into a four year conditional sale agreement for a used car with 
Close Brothers. The car was 10 years  old and had a mileage of around 110,000.
Miss G says she had problems  with the car within a few days. The cars stop/start 
system didnt work and the engine management light was illuminated. She says she 
took the car back  to the garage  that had supplied it but they were  unable to repair it.
Miss G says she raised several complaints with the garage over the next few months. And 
in October 2018,  when  the engine started to make a noise and smoke, she took the car 
back to the dealers garage. The dealers garage  arranged for the car to be seen by a third 
party garage who told Miss G it needed a new engine. Miss G was provided  with a courtesy 
car while hers was in for repair.
The car was kept by the third party garage for several weeks. In January 2019 Miss G 
collected the car but says it developed a problem  with an oil leak a short  time 
afterwards. She took the car back  to the third party garage.
Miss G complained to Close Brothers  about the condition of the car. Close  Brothers didnt 
uphold her complaint.  It said that the car was in the process of being  repaired under the 
warranty which Miss G had accepted. It also said that as six months had passed from the 
inception of the agreement it was for Miss G to supply evidence  that the car had been 
faulty from the point  of sale and she hadnt  done so.
Miss G disagreed with the decision of Close Brothers and complained  to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 the car had to be of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Satisfactory quality took into account  durability, safety, finish  and appearance of the car 
as well as whether it was fit for purpose. So if faults were  identified it was important that 
these could be shown  not to be due to wear and tear of the car.
Our investigator said she had tried to get copies of job sheets from the dealers garage but 
had been unable to do so. She said she didnt dispute Miss G may have had issues with 
the car but there was no evidence  as to what the problems were and what repairs,  if any, 
had been carried  out.
Our investigator said there was no evidence that Miss G had contacted either the dealers 
garage or Close Brothers before  six months  had passed from taking  the car. And in these 
circumstances under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 evidence was required to show  that 
the fault with the car had been present or developing at the point of sale. Unfortunately no 
such evidence had been produced.
Miss G disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said that she had asked for the job 
sheets but these hadnt been provided  and she said she thought  the lack of contact  from 
the dealers garage  with this service was suspicious.
Ref: DRN93593892Miss G also said she was aware that the dealers  garage had now closed down and 
believed it was due to the actions of Trading Standards Officers. She said that the dealer 
had required  her to take out an extended warranty on the car which was for the life of the 
agreement. The warranty was for repairs to be undertaken at the dealers  garage. Miss G 
said this warranty had been included in the conditional sale agreement  and cost around £30 
per month. She said that as this was now worthless she wanted  a refund of the cost of the 
warranty.
Miss G said the issues  with the car werent  from wear and tear and that she should be 
able to reject  it as not being of satisfactory  condition.
As the parties  couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The  Act)  the car must be of satisfactory 
quality at the point  of sale. And satisfactory  quality is what  a reasonable person would 
expect taking into account all the relevant circumstances  such as age, condition,  
mileage and price paid for the car.
The type of finance agreement supplied by Close Brothers to Miss G for the car meant that 
it also holds the position of supplier of the car. This meant it was responsible for ensuring  
the car met the Acts requirements for satisfactory  quality.
Id seen that Miss G said shed raised  faults with the car a very short  time after she 
acquired it. In particular there  was a problem with the stop/start  system and the car wouldnt 
start again when  stopped at traffic  lights or when pulling up. However  Miss G said that the 
dealers garage said it wasnt able to fix the issue and she took the car back.
There were no job sheets  available as to whether  inspections were  or werent  carried out 
and as the dealers  garage was no longer in existence there  wasnt any more  information 
that could be obtained. Miss G said that the dealers garage was possibly closed due to the 
actions of Trading  Standards. Id seen that shortly  before Miss G took the car it 
successfully passed  its MOT without  any advisories.
Miss G disputed the cars mileage and said she thought it had been altered;  firstly  when 
shed acquired  the car and later after the car had another  engine fitted. Id seen that on the 
agreement the car was recorded as having  a mileage of around 109,000 but from the MOT 
undertaken shortly  before  Miss G collected the car the mileage was recorded as 110,000. 
However, the invoice  for the car shows a mileage of 110,000 and as Miss G had signed  this 
document Im satisfied  she knew the correct mileage  at the point she acquired  it and there  
was an error  on the conditional sale agreement.
Close Brothers said when  the car received its MOT  in April 2019 Miss G had driven  it for an 
additional 16,000 miles. It said this shows that the car was fully working. Miss G said that 
she hadnt driven that far and the mileage  was incorrect.  She said the cars mileage was 
higher after the other engine had been fitted and so must have been  interfered with.
Although I appreciated the car had the repair in December/January  I didnt have any 
evidence that this caused  the milometer to read inaccurately. So I didnt think  I could 
reasonably say that the recorded  mileage  for the car wasnt correct. But even if Miss G 
hadnt driven the car as much as the mileage would suggest I thought based on what  she 
Ref: DRN93593893had told us it was reasonable to say shed been able to use the car both before and after 
the repair.
Miss G said that when  the car went in for repairs in October 2018 she was without it for the 
next three months  though  courtesy cars were provided. Miss G said these courtesy cars 
were of poor quality and had issues of their own.
Id seen that Miss G raised her complaint  with Close Brothers in December 2018. Miss G 
told Close Brothers that at that time the car was having repairs to the engine and that these 
had been delayed while an engine was sourced. So I accepted that it was more likely than 
not that the car had engine  repairs started  in or around October.
Miss Gs timeline indicated that the faults with the car were apparent within a short  time of 
her taking delivery. By the time the need for a new engine was diagnosed shed had the car 
for about five to six months. It didnt appear  to be disputed that the car had had a new 
engine fitted and this would clearly  be a major repair. I was satisfied  that the timeline  and 
description of the problems Miss G said shed experienced with the car were  consistent 
with a fault that was present at the point of supply and that continued to develop over time.
The car was by then ten and half years old, having  covered over 110,000 miles. Over that 
time, even  a well-maintained car can develop issues requiring repair  or replacement  of key 
components, due to natural  wear and tear or as they reach  the end of their recommended 
lifespan. But the need for a replacement  engine was rather more  than natural wear and 
tear. And such a failure, within only a few months  of taking delivery, combined with the 
issues leading up to that point that Miss G has described, led me towards the conclusion 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied.
That said, the Act would allow  the supplier an opportunity to fix the problems. I didnt think  
that there was enough evidence for me to say that the garage had already had that 
opportunity and failed. I didnt know what faults  Miss G had raised or what investigations 
had been undertaken.
The dealers  garage  arranged for a third party garage to undertake the work.  Miss G was
not charged for the work as it was covered by the warranty.  The car was returned to Miss G
in January 2019 repaired.
Miss G said that the car had developed an oil leak a few days  after shed collected it. She 
raised this with Close Brothers  who said that it would need evidence  this leak was linked to 
the previous work as it could be a new issue. However, Miss G said that further repairs were 
carried out for the oil leak and to the stop/start  system though she hadnt  had to cover these 
costs. So I was satisfied that the car was now successfully  repaired although  this had taken 
a little while to sort out and in light of this I didnt think it would be reasonable for Miss G to 
now reject  the car.
Miss G also said she had to replace  the tyres but, as Ive said above, I thought a car of this 
age and mileage  would  be expected to have  some maintenance issues over time. As tyres  
were wear  and tear items and werent raised  as being defective  at the point of sale I 
wouldnt ask Close Brothers  to reimburse  this cost.
Id seen that the engine  repair took some weeks and I appreciated that wouldve caused  
Miss G inconvenience. However  Id seen that the garage provided courtesy cars, one was 
returned due to faults but it was replaced  though this one later had to have repairs. However 
Ref: DRN93593894Id seen that Miss G confirmed that the courtesy car was working fine  three days after her 
initial complaint.  So although there were so problems I was satisfied Miss G was, for the 
majority of the time, kept mobile.  But I thought compensation for the loss of the use of the 
car and the inconvenience caused  by having to take the car to the garage repeatedly was 
fair. I thought £150 was a reasonable amount  in these  circumstances.
Miss G had raised the warranty shed bought when she took out the agreement for the car. 
As the dealers garage was now closed I accepted  that any time left on that warranty was 
now of no use to Miss G. Close Brothers  said there  wasnt  any evidence the warranty  had 
been added  to the conditional  sale and that this may have been a direct  sale between the 
garage and Miss G in which case it wasnt liable.
Miss G wasnt  clear about the cost of the warranty as shed said she thought it was £770 
but also said it was £1050. I appreciated Miss G hadnt found the figures on the conditional 
sale agreement clear  but I thought they set out what the car cost,  the deposit and the total 
credit amount.
On the agreement  the cost of the car was shown as £3495  and that Miss G had paid a 
deposit of £1050. However Miss G had provided  an invoice for the car which showed its cost 
as £2995. This meant that £500  was added to the cost of the car on the conditional sale 
agreement. It was accepted that Miss G had a warranty  as the car was repaired under it. So I 
thought it was more likely than not that Miss G had paid £500 for a warranty  and that this 
cost was added to the amount borrowed under the conditional sale agreement.
Although Miss G had in theory benefitted from the warranty by having the car repaired at no 
cost to her, I thought  these were repairs that Close Brothers would have had to cover in any 
event as they were  either present or developing  at the point of sale.  These  repairs  were 
required because the car wasnt of satisfactory condition. As the warranty could no longer 
be used by Miss G (due to the garage ceasing  to operate) I thought it would be fair for 
Close Brothers to reduce the outstanding  balance of Miss Gs agreement by £500.
So for the reasons given  above I intended to partially uphold Miss Gs complaint. Im asked 
for Close Brothers to pay her £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
by the car having to undergo repairs and for it to reduce  the outstanding balance  by 
deducting the cost of the warranty.
As she was provided with a courtesy car and had been able to use the car when it wasnt in 
for repairs I wasnt going to ask Close Brothers  to reimburse any of her monthly payments 
under the agreement.
Miss G has agreed with my provisional view. Close Brothers said it agreed with the 
reimbursement of the warranty  but felt that compensation  wasnt  warranted as Miss G hadnt  
been inconvenienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with Close  Brothers view that Miss G hasnt been  inconvenienced  and distressed 
dealing with the cars faults. Ive set out the history above and this shows there were multiple 
visits to the garage  in an effort to get the faults  fixed. Miss G was also without the car for a 
Ref: DRN93593895lengthy period  of time while the engine was replaced and while I appreciate  she was kept 
mobile she wasnt able to use the car shed chosen.  
So I still think compensation of £150  in these circumstances is fair and reasonable and Im 
partially upholding Miss Gs complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Miss Gs complaint.  To resolve this 
matter Im asking Close Brothers  Limited  to do the following:
 Pay Miss G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having to 
take the car for multiple repairs
 Reduce the outstanding balance of the agreement by £500  (being the cost of 
the warranty).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9359389