K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Hs credit agreement had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. It asked 
customers to either tick a box to take PPI, or tick a box to turn it down. Both boxes had 
equal prominence.  Mr H ticked  the box to buy PPI, and signed the agreement. Overall, 
I think that Bank of Ireland  made it clear Mr H didnt have to take out PPI, and that he 
chose to take it  though I can certainly understand why he might not remember  doing so 
after so many years.
Bank of Ireland  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt  have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr H got the information  he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And he 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he was off sick or lost his job. So the 
PPI couldve been useful for him if something went wrong.  And I dont think  better 
information about the costs and benefits of the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the 
cover. 
This means  Bank of Ireland doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Ireland will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Bank of Ireland  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Bank of Ireland  didnt  tell 
him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Ireland  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Ireland  has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Ireland should also pay back  to Mr H any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Ref: DRN99722132Bank of Ireland  should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr H the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Ireland should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9972213