K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a fixed sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited,  
trading as Barclays Partner  Finance, was mis-represented  to him.
background 
Mr H signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance in October 2016 to 
pay for some replacement windows. He says that he had the money available  to him from 
his parents to pay for the replacement windows but he was offered a discount of £1,668 by 
the supplier if he paid for them  using a loan from Barclays  Partner Finance  so he entered  
into the agreement. He contacted Barclays Partner Finance in November  2017  and it said 
that there  was no option to settle  the finance  early and avoid any interest charges. 
He complained to Barclays Partner  Finance and the supplier.  Barclays Partner Finance said 
that the terms and conditions  of the agreement say that he would be charged  an additional 
one month  and 28 days of interest  if he decided to settle the agreement  early. And it said 
that the settlement figure that hed requested was £15,578.36.  
Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  He says that he was 
told that he shouldnt  be concerned with the interest rates as the full balance  could  be settled 
within 15 months and no interest would  be charged. Hes also made a complaint  about the 
supplier  and that complaint has been  dealt with separately.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought that it was 
more than likely that Mr H was told by the supplier  that he could settle the balance  of the 
windows without having to incur any interest and that a further discount would be applied  to 
the cash price. And he couldnt see why Mr H wouldve paid £429.07  over 60 months 
(£25,744.20) when he couldve paid-off the £20,327 at once  - unless hed been told that he 
could pay it off without  paying any interest. So he recommended that Barclays  Partner 
Finance should  unwind  the finance  agreement and allow Mr H to pay the balance  of the cash 
price of the windows (taking into account his initial deposit and how much  hed already paid 
for the windows)  and that it should  also pay him £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr H has accepted the investigators  recommendation but Barclays Partner Finance has 
asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says,  in summary, that:
the loan agreement clearly says that Mr H is required to pay a total of £8,951.20  in 
interest; 
theres no mention  of the loan being  interest  free or a 15 month interest  waiver  
period;
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence  to substantiate his claim that he thought that he 
was getting an interest free finance  deal;
if he was given  a verbal misrepresentation that contradicted the written contact, he 
shouldve requested to have the contradictory information provided  to him in writing;
the supplier says that it didnt give Mr H any incorrect  verbal  inducements regarding  
the finance; and
it cant comment on Mr Hs allegation of poor service by the supplier and thats being 
looked at under  a separate complaint against the supplier.
Ref: DRN99979982my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Barclays Partner Finance on 14 February  2020. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
Mr H agreed with the supplier for it to provide  him with replacement windows for a 
price of £18,659. He signed an order form which showed that the agreed  price was 
£18,659 and he paid a deposit  of £1,866 on a debit card. The order form says:
This order is placed on finance and an additional discount has been allowed. 
If you choose to settle instead by cash on installation, the discount will be 
withdrawn resulting in a higher price  for cash of £20,327.00 and a cash 
balance payment of £18,461.
He also signed  a fixed sum loan agreement and confirmed that hed received a copy 
of the pre-contract credit information and that he was entering  into a legally binding  
agreement and he would keep to the terms and conditions. The agreement clearly 
set out that the cash price of the windows was £18,659, there  was a deposit of 
£1,866, the loan was for £16,793, the total charge for the loan was £8,951.20, the 
interest rate was 19.9%,  the total amount payable was £27,610.20 and Mr H was 
required to make 60 monthly repayments of £429.07.
The agreement also said  in a section headed Early repayment that:
You can repay all or part of the loan early at any time. If you repay all or part 
of the loan early  we will charge you interest up to the settlement date (which  
is 28 days after you tell us that you want to repay or any later date you tell us 
you want to repay all or part of the loan) plus a further calendars  months  
interest.
Theres no reference in the agreement to an interest  free period or an option to repay 
the loan without paying any interest. And the interest rate of 19.9% and the total cost 
of the interest  of £8,951.20 were  clearly set out in the agreement. So if Mr H had 
read the agreement   as he shouldve done  I consider that he wouldve  known  (or 
ought reasonably  to have known) that he was required to pay interest on the loan. If 
the agreement  didnt reflect his understanding of what  had been agreed,  I consider 
that it wouldve  been reasonable to expect him to have asked the supplier about it 
before signing  the agreement   and, if he wasnt satisfied with the provisions  of the 
agreement, he had the option to not sign it. And he also had the option to pay for the 
windows in full up-front.
Mr H says that he had the money  available to him from his parents to pay for the 
windows and only agreed to take the finance  option because of the additional 
discount that he was offered if he entered into the loan agreement and because  he 
was told that the full balance could be settled within fifteen months and no interest 
would be charged.  But hes provided no other  evidence to show  that the supplier had 
told him that he could  settle the balance  within  fifteen months without paying any 
interest. And he signed the loan agreement  which clearly set out the terms of the 
loan and he agreed to its terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN99979983Mr H may have  misunderstood what he was told by the supplier  and the way that the 
agreement would work. But he received a discount  of £1,668  on the cost of the 
windows (from £20,327 to £18,659) and that discount wouldve been  more than the 
interest that he was paying if hed paid off the agreement in full under the early  
repayment provisions  in the first few months. The supplier  says that Mr H wouldve 
been advised that he could reduce  the term and cost of the loan by making 
overpayments - and if the loan was cleared in fifteen months by making  
overpayments the discount would be approximately equal  to the interest  applied.  And 
that may be the reason  that Mr H understood that he should settle the agreement 
within fifteen months.  But that wouldnt have been  interest free  the interest 
wouldve been approximately equal to the discount  so hed have been no worse  off 
by entering into the agreement  (and wouldve also had the benefit of the money  for 
up to fifteen months).
I sympathise with Mr H that hes now paying more for the windows than he 
understood that hed have to pay. But Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr H. He signed the 
agreement and accepted the terms that were  clearly set out in it. He contacted 
Barclays Partner Finance  for a settlement figure in November 2017 but I understand 
that the loan remains outstanding. 
Mr H has complained about the service that he received  from the supplier and hes 
made a complaint to this service  about  that  and that complaint has been dealt with 
separately. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
Barclays Partner Finance  has acted  incorrectly in its dealings with Mr H. So I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to end the agreement,  to pay any 
compensation to Mr H or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr H or Barclays Partner Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr H has responded to my provisional  decision in detail and says, in summary,  that: 
he accepts that the agreement  was signed and not queried at the time;
he was clearly told that the loan was interest free for 15 months; and
he wasnt told that the price was discounted  from £20,327 to £18,659   and hes 
never seen any paperwork showing the £20,327  amount and nor was it ever verbally  
mentioned;
and he suggests  a compromise on the basis that the settlement value that he requested in 
November 2017  was £15,578.36 and hell agree to pay that amount less the £11,584.89  that 
hes paid by monthly direct debit  since that date  which is £3,993.47.
Barclays Partner Finance  hasnt accepted  Mr Hs offer and says that the settlement figure  is 
£8,814.12.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision. 
Mr H accepts that he signed the loan agreement and I consider that its clear from the 
agreement that interest  was payable on the loan. He says that he was told that the loan 
Ref: DRN99979984would be interest free for 15 months. But theres  no other evidence  to show  that thats  what 
was agreed with the supplier  and thats  not consistent with whats written  in the loan 
agreement.
Mr H says that he wasnt told that the price of the windows had been discounted from 
£20,327. But that information  was included on the order form  which he signed.  
Hes suggested a compromise under which he pays a further £3,993.47 to Barclays  Partner  
Finance  but it hasnt accepted that offer and says that the settlement figure  is £8,814.12.  
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays Partner 
Finance to accept  Mr Hs offer.
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that the agreement  was 
misrepresented to Mr H or that Barclays Partner  Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings  
with him. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to end the 
agreement, to pay any compensation to Mr H or to take any other  action in response to his 
complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9997998