K820x#14complaint
Miss P has brought this complaint on behalf of herself and the Estate of Mr F. I was sorry to 
see Mr F died in 2002. 
Miss P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her and Mr F a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
It hasnt always been clear which business sold this cover. I can see that at the point of sale,  
Lloyds was trading  as TSB. For the avoidance  of any further confusion, Ill refer to Lloyds for 
the rest of this decision  Lloyds is the business responsible for answering this complaint. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss P and Mr F bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch.  
Although they took out a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up for Mr F only. He was covered 
for accident, sickness, and unemployment,  subject to the policys exclusions and limitations. 
It offered  to repay £139.13 a month  towards  Miss P and Mr Fs mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the point of sale, it cost £8.13 a month. 
At the time,  Mr F worked for the NHS.  It looks as though he would have had around six 
months full pay if he was off sick from work. Mr F had been  working  in his job for around 6 
years when the cover was sold. With that in mind,  I think hed have been entitled to some 
redundancy pay. Miss P told us that they didnt have any other means with which to make 
their mortgage repayments if Mr F were  out of work.    
I asked our adjudicator  to make some further  enquiries about whether Mr F had any medical 
conditions at the time of sale. Miss P clarified  that Mr F was in good health  when the cover  
was sold. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was closed in September  
2001.  
Those representing Miss P and Mr Fs estate  made  lengthy and substantial representations 
on their behalf. I will not restate  them all here, but I have read and considered them  all 
carefully. In summary,  the representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss P and Mr F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  The 
representative argues  there is no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely Miss P and Mr F could 
make a successful claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by 
Ref: DRN99362902the low claims  ratio.  The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Lloyds should 
have told them about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss P and Mr F and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss P and Mr F received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. The adjudicators opinion was not accepted for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I dont intend to set that out in much 
detail here but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  the complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN99362903complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering this complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised with reasonable  care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable given Miss P and Mr Fs 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave sufficient,appropriate and timely information  to enable Miss P 
and Mr F to make  an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN99362904-I must  also consider  whether and to what extent Miss P and Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss P and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss P and Mr F know  they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the mortgage application form that was completed by Miss P 
and Mr F. Looking  at that document,  I can see there was a separate  section dealing with the 
PPI. There were two equally prominent boxes  one to tick to indicate they wanted a policy 
and another to say they did not. The box agreeing to PPI has been selected. 
I can also see that Miss P and Mr F also had to decide how to set the cover up. Theyve  
decided on Mr F only and answered some fairly basic questions about  his employment 
circumstances. Taking  these things into account, I think  its most likely they had a discussion 
with the Lloyds representative about the cover, which reflected what  was written on the 
application form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss P and Mr F knew  the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because when the PPI was sold, Miss P and Mr F 
could have reasonably thought Lloyds was recommending the cover after taking  a detailed 
account of their financial circumstances. This means Lloyds had to advise them  with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
The adviser had information about  some of Miss P and Mr Fs financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  And I can see that some questions  were asked about Mr 
Fs employment circumstances. But I dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure  the PPI was 
suitable. For example,  it didnt enquire  about  their existing means. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable.  So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with 
reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss P and Mr F. I do think  its more  likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN99362905-Miss P and Mr F had a need for the policy   Mr F was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely their finances would be put under  strain if he was not working  even 
allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits  he was entitled to and Miss Ps 
income. The policy would  have  helped them manage the consequences were Mr F 
unable to work; 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable;
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable.  There was nothing  
about Mr Fs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to 
claim. And I havent been told about any medical  conditions  that Mr F had at the time 
the cover  was sold. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Miss P and Mr F]s circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  provided  sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable Miss P and Mr F to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that advice and 
take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss P and Mr F were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr F was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  they would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss P and Mr F agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation, Im not persuaded Lloyds did enough to 
present information  about the policy in a way that was fair and reasonable. Im not 
persuaded Lloyds gave  Miss P and Mr F all of the information they needed about the policy 
to make an informed decision about  whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  the representative has raised a number of 
general points  in regards to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like this. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what the representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN99362906-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss P and Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them.  
Im not persuaded by the representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way that was suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Miss P and Mr F? To what extent  did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy.  So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Miss P and Mr F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether they would 
have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable, I have  found that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
them. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss P and Mr F suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
they would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
It is argued that Miss P and Mr F wouldnt  have  taken it out and that I should  presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss P and Mr F had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  that would protect  their mortgage  payments  in the event Mr F was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss P and Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable.
Ref: DRN99362907Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss P and Mr F knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant say Lloyds told them the exact premium at the point they 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Miss P and Mr F would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss P and Mr F would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  PPI was sold.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Miss P and Mr F would  get 
back in return in the event of a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely their expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss P and Mr F thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability which happened during the 12 
months before the start date and for which Mr F had received  treatment  from a 
medical practitioner; 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr F be totally 
unable to work because of sickness  or injury as certified by a registered medical 
practitioner; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss P and Mr F pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss P and Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  Mr F was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable, should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr F 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. He didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think Miss P and Mr F had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Miss P and Mr F might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
Ref: DRN99362908circumstances from taking  out the policy,  Miss P and Mr F, in their circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
To make a disability claim, Mr F needed to be totally unable to do his normal  job. But I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to make a claim. So it 
seems unlikely they would have thought they would been able to make a successful claim if 
Mr F was still working. 
Lloyds may not have  pointed out that any claim would be limited  to a 12-month period. This 
may have  differed from what  they expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 months was 
a longer period than Mr F would  have  received full sick pay for and his statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss P and Mr F would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  and would help to 
manage the consequences  should  Mr F be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time.  It may have also ensured their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Fs sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss P and Mr F would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr F was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Miss P and Mr F would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
It is argued that the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear 
that, where a significant failing is identified, it should  be presumed the consumer wouldnt 
have taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss P and Mr F would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account the 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss P 
and Mr F found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN99362909It is argued that the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including Miss Ps comments  that she and Mr F would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss P and Mr Fs estate in the position they would have 
been in if the policy  had not been purchased.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Miss P and Mr F would not have taken out 
the policy, I am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would 
still have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay compensation, as that would put Miss P and 
Mr Fs estate in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
It has been contended that Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described  
the PPI.  While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Lloydss 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds provided  was insufficient to meet  the 
standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1997 when providing 
information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach the representative says a court might take if it were to 
find Lloyds negligently  misrepresented the contract and about the remedy a court might 
award if it were to find that Lloyds had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss P and Mr Fs estate  in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9936290