K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of his late wifes (Mrs Ds) Estate. 
He says they were  wrongly advised to cancel their life cover by The Royal Bank  of Scotland  
(the business).
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
short, she said shes seen no evidence that would persuade her that Mr and Mrs D were  
advised to cancel their life cover at the review hearing.  
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view. He feels due weight wasnt given  to his account 
and unfortunately,  other than what he recalls happened, he has no other evidence to back 
his account. Although the adjudicator says there no evidence  they were  advised to cancel 
their life cover in the meeting  on 2 May 2014,  they attended serval meetings during  July and 
February 2014. A full review was carried  out during one of those meetings and thats  when 
they were advised  to cover their life cover.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr D says, Im unable to safely  
conclude that they were  advised to cancel their life cover. Ive seen no persuasive evidence 
that this is what happened. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
The business has made clear that its advisers weren't permitted to give advice. I appreciate 
that of itself doesn't necessarily mean advice wasn't given. Its possible they were advised to 
cancel the additional policy but on the face of the evidence, and on a balance of 
probabilities, I cant safely  conclude that this was the case.  
Ref: DRN92292462In this instance I think its possible the issue of cancelling  Mr and Mrs Ds life cover was 
discussed as an option, at the review meeting, or one of the meetings they D had with the 
business. In light of the evidence, its likely  the 2 May meeting was when  the review  meeting 
took place. 
But the decision to cancel would have been  solely with Mr and Mrs D and doesn't mean they 
had no choice but to cancel their life cover. I appreciate in hindsight it was a poor decision,  
but I cant blame the business for this. It may also explain why the date of the meeting and 
the date of the cancellation dont match, because Mr and Mrs D took the decision to cancel 
in their own time. 
Im aware Mr D has raised other complaints which are being dealt with separately. Although 
the other issues raised might involve the same business, they are separate,  and don't form a 
part of this specific complaint. So, whether (or not) there is substance  to any of the other 
complains doesnt  have a bearing  in this one. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr D 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229246