K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has raised the minimum monthly  
payment on his credit card account which is causing  him financial difficulties.
background
In August  2018  Mr S received a letter from NatWest saying that the minimum payment on 
his credit card would be increased  from October  2018 to two and a half per cent of the 
outstanding balance plus interest and charges.  He told NatWest this would cause him 
financial difficulty and it offered to apply a waiver of interest for three  months. And it said he 
could speak with its specialist team to help him make affordable payments. It otherwise said 
that he could close the account  to stop the increase in minimum payments.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-New rules from the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) set out that a customer  was in 
persistent debt if over the prior 18 months  interest, fees and charges had been more 
than the repayment of the outstanding balance.
-Mr S was in this category and NatWest  was required  to take action to alert Mr S of 
this and the potential consequences.
-Its response had been to increase  the minimum amount payable as set out above.  It 
didnt have to act in the same way another financial business had - and not ask him 
for an increase  in his payments.
-He understood  that Mr S was concerned  about the implications for his credit  record  
of entering say into an arrangement. But NatWest had offered him the alternative  of 
closing his account.
-He did not think that NatWest had acted unfairly  and once  Mr S had raised a 
complaint it was dealt  with centrally  by NatWest  - so thats why a branch manager 
would not discuss  it with him. 
Mr S did not agree  and wanted  his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 January 2019. I set out below what  I 
said:
new regulations
As the adjudicator had said there are new regulations that have now been introduced about 
persistent credit card debt. These  are set out in the FCA Handbook in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). I needed to set out some of the detail about that as context for this 
complaint.
NatWest is required to contact a customer in persistent debt (as defined above)  over the 
prior 18 months.  And to explain that increasing  the amount of payment would reduce the 
cost of borrowing  and amount  of time it would  take to repay. It is required to encourage the 
customer to contact the firm to discuss the customers financial circumstances and whether 
the customer can increase the amount of payments (CONC 6.27 (4) d). And to warn of the 
consequences of two consecutive periods of 18 months where payments of debt were lower  
than interest fees and charges. These include that the account  could be suspended or 
cancelled and that there might be an impact on the credit file. 
Ref: DRN94537512There are specific  further actions NatWest would need  to take if that later point is reached. I 
noted though that even then the requirement  is to consider options that might assist which 
do not adversely affect the customers financial situation. (CONC 6.7.30 (3)). None of these 
regulations as I saw it alter CONC 6.7.5 (1) which states that the minimum repayment 
under a credit card agreement remains set at one percent of the balance plus interest,  fees 
and charges.
my assessment in this case
Mr S was in persistent  credit card debt.  NatWest was correct to write to him about  this. I 
understood that its general approach was to require  higher monthly payments from 
customers in persistent debt. I understood the rationale for that and that it was being 
proactive in dealing with this. And so if this increase was applied Mr S ideally wouldnt reach  
the stage where  he risked  his account being cancelled  or suspended.
I said I was looking at what is fair and reasonable for Mr S taking into account relevant  
regulations. Mr S told NatWest he could  not afford the payments. NatWest helpfully offered 
three months interest  waiver. I was not persuaded it was reasonable through to indicate to 
him that any further  reduction in monthly  payment would be treated as an arrangement and 
needed to be dealt with by a specialist team. Or to say alternatively that the other option 
would be for him to close the account.  In my provisional view I said NatWest ought fairly  to 
have allowed Mr S to opt out of the increase  in the first place as he asked. And that any 
adverse information  it had reported  about payments on his credit card to credit reference 
agencies should  be removed after August 2018.
Mr S has clearly  been concerned about how he is going to make  the higher payments. And 
about the potential impact  of not making  those payments  on his credit  record  and ability to 
obtain future finance. I considered NatWest  should  also pay him £200 to reflect this distress.
I needed to make clear  to Mr S that if he remains in persistent debt then as Id set out above 
NatWest will be required to take further  action - especially if there are two consecutive 
periods of 18 months. However, at the current time my provisional view was that NatWest  
does not have a fair basis to take the action it has in his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said he had received  the provisional decision and something else from NatWest.  He 
said he was going  to send a copy to this service. The adjudicator reminded him about  this 
and said that I might  continue with the complaint once the deadline  for submissions had 
passed. He has not provided anything further  yet.
NatWest also confirmed  it had received  my provisional decision. It did not provide any further 
comments or evidence.
I have taken account of the time since my provisional decision and I consider that there  has 
been ample opportunity for comment.  Or to request an extension  of time if there are 
difficulties in providing further  comments  or evidence. So I am going to reach  a final decision 
now and I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN94537513my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require National Westminster  Bank  Plc to
1)Allow Mr S to opt out of the increase in the minimum payment and back date the 
necessary adjustments to his account.
2)Remove any adverse  credit information, if any, it has reported about  his credit card 
payments since August  2018 and up to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
3)Pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9453751