K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly settled 
accident claims on their motor insurance  policy and unfairly increased their policy premiums.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  involved  in four separate motoring incidents since  2016 for which claims 
were made against their policy  and they dispute RSAs decisions about  who was liable. They  
dont think RSA did enough to investigate, particularly an incident  in May 2018,  and they said 
it had ignored the evidence.  They felt that RSA shouldve done more to pursue third parties 
involved and recover their losses. 
Mr and Mrs B said RSA had increased  their premium on account of all the liabilities from the 
claims on their policy to such an extent that the protection  of their no claims bonus makes no
difference. Mrs B is the main policyholder and Mr B is a named driver. Their  complaint 
concerns the following incidents and decisions thereon by RSA.
The first incident  in April 2016 led to a split 50/50  liability which  RSA said was the best option 
given there  were no independent witnesses and it was one partys word  against the other. 
The second  incident in November 2017  was also settled on split 50/50  liability  following 
advice from RSAs lawyers. Similarly, there  were  conflicting versions of the events and one 
partys word  against another. Mr and Mrs B said they accepted this decision and the claim 
was subsequently resolved as non-fault.
The third incident  in May 2018 also led RSA to take legal advice on the prospect of success 
and this suggested a 50/50  split of liability. For this incident Mr and Mrs B said that RSA 
should have obtained CCTV footage.
The fourth incident in October  2018 has been  settled  as a fault claim against Mr and Mrs B 
as they accepted liability for the incident.  However, Mr and Mrs B disputed  causing damage 
to a second third party. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said RSA is allowed 
under the policy  to settle a claim as it sees fit. She thought that RSA had given proper 
consideration to all of the claims, before it chose  to settle with the third parties. The 
investigator said that the compensation RSA paid Mr and Mrs B for not dealing with their 
request for the CCTV footage in a timely manner, was fair.
The investigator said RSA has provided  confidential business information  to explain how 
Mr and Mrs Bs premiums  were calculated. She thought the premiums  had been calculated 
correctly at renewal in line with the approach for all of RSAs customers  in a similar  position.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said an insurer has a duty to determine who is responsible  for 
an accident and RSA hadnt  looked  at the statements from the parties, only the admissions 
that had been made.
Ref: DRN93418992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it 
and I have explained the reasons why I have reached this outcome below. 
In bringing this complaint Mr and Mrs B have made a number of detailed points. I've 
considered everything  theyve said carefully, but in this decision I will focus on what I see as 
being the key outstanding points following our investigators assessment of their complaint.
Claims decisions
Mr and Mrs B said they werent  at fault for all of the incidents for which claims have been 
made against their policy. So, I can understand their frustration that RSA made decisions 
that essentially means that they were partly  to blame. And, as a result, Mrs B now has fault 
claims affecting her insurance history. 
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mrs Bs policy allows  
RSA to settle claims as it sees  fit. That means  it doesnt require Mr and Mrs Bs consent to 
decide how to settle a claim and it may make  a decision that Mr and Mrs B dont agree with. 
But Ill look to see that its done so reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs B and the third parties gave different versions of events for the disputed claims. 
Mr and Mrs B have  set out their view as to where responsibility lies for the incidents, but they 
havent presented  any persuasive or independent  evidence, for example an expert  or legal  
opinion, to show that the conclusions reached  by RSA were unfair or unreasonable.
Given the evidence,  RSA decided to try to settle  the claims  on the best terms available  to it 
and negotiated a 50/50 split liability with the other  drivers insurers  for the first three  
incidents. Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy with these  decisions. But RSA had to make an 
assessment of what it thinks would be the likely  outcome if the claims went to court. And 
court proceedings always involve an element of risk for both parties.  And defending or 
pursuing an action  in court will inevitably involve additional costs. 
When RSA settled the claims on split liability there was no independent witness  
evidence available. So, if RSA had let the matter go to court it could  have faced 
significantly higher  costs. It follows that I think its decision to settle  the claim on a 50/50 
split liability basis was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B said RSA shouldve obtained  CCTV footage of the third incident  in May 2018.  
From what  Ive seen from the records theres  no guarantee that CCTV footage  wouldve 
been available at the location of the incident,  or that if it was, it wouldve shown the incident.
Even if CCTV footage  had been  obtained, I don't  think its likely that the position  would have 
been any different,  as a 50/50 outcome would appear the most likely outcome in the 
circumstances. RSA apologised to Mr and Mrs B for not pursuing this and paid them £200 
compensation. I think that was reasonable. 
While I can understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration, I don't think  RSAs  decision to settle the 
claims on a 50/50 basis  was unfair. So Im not going to direct  RSA to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN93418993Increased premiums
Mr and Mrs B said that in the light of the claims RSA has unfairly increased their premium.  
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. Within  my role I can look at whether RSA has treated 
Mr and Mrs B fairly during the time they held the policy.
When looking at whether RSA has treated them fairly - I need  to satisfy myself  that RSA 
hasnt unfairly increased the cost of the policy over the years.  
Mr and Mrs B have  successfully claimed on their policy over the last four years. Its often the 
case that when  claims  are made, regardless of who was at fault for the accident,  the cost of 
the insurance goes  up. This is because  an insurer may believe theres a higher risk of future  
claims. Premiums  are based on the risk of a consumer  making  a claim.
RSA said that it calculates  the premiums for its policies in line with the risk the customer 
presents and the cover it provides. It said Mr and Mrs Bs age and changing  their car will 
also have impacted on the premium. I think that the number of claims on the policy  has 
impacted on the premiums, and I think RSA has calculated Mr and Mrs Bs premiums as it 
would for any other customer in his circumstances. I have seen that RSA has applied Mr and 
Mrs Bs no claims  bonus. For these reasons I cant say RSA has done  anything wrong here 
or that it has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly.
I think its reasonable for an insurer to assess the increased risk from motoring incidents,  
particularly when they have caused  it to make outlays. RSA has shown our service  its rating  
criteria in support of the additional premium. Having  looked at Mr and Mrs Bs history with 
RSA, I cant say that RSA increased  their premiums  unfairly. So I dont think RSA has done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9341899