K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the decision by Legal  and General  Assurance Society Limited  
(L&G) to terminate his claim under his employers group income protection insurance 
policy.
background
Mr S was a member of his employers group income  protection insurance policy,  held with 
L&G. The policy  would pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  in the event that Mr S 
was unable to perform his occupation  due to illness or injury.
In March 2016, Mr S stopped working when he underwent surgery to his knee. The surgery 
didnt go as well as planned and Mr S required further treatment,  including additional 
surgery. He also become low in mood at his situation and underwent  a course  of cognitive 
behavioural therapy. Mr S made a claim under the policy.
In February 2017,  after obtaining medical  evidence, L&G accepted the claim from the end of 
the waiting period in September 2016. However,  it said it would terminate the claim with 
effect from April 2017  because it believed Mr S was capable  of returning to work.
In June 2018, Mr S appealed against  L&Gs  decision  and said his knee problems were 
ongoing. He said he was due to undergo further surgery in July 2018.
In November 2018, L&G issued a final response letter in which it stood  by its decision to 
terminate the claim. It noted that Mr S hadnt returned to work  since  that time and said that it 
couldnt therefore consider a new claim for incapacity even if the July 2018 surgery  had left 
Mr S temporarily unable to work.
Mr S was unhappy at L&Gs response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that L&G had acted fairly.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He pointed out that hed been  certified  as unfit 
to work throughout. He said that even if there had been periods where he potentially  might 
have been able to work,  he had undergone three  operations  since the termination of his 
claim. He said that in the periods immediately following these operations  he clearly had been 
unable to work. He thought L&G should at least pay benefit for these  periods.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why. 
To receive  benefit  under the policy, Mr S needed to be incapacitated from performing the 
essential duties  of his occupation.  His occupation  was essentially sedentary.
Ref: DRN90365362Immediately following his March 2016 operation, Mr S had very limited  mobility and so was 
unable to work. His operation didnt go as planned and so he needed further  surgery,  
following which he remained off work. However,  based on regular telephone interviews with 
Mr S, L&Gs rehabilitation  specialist considered  that by late 2016  he was capable of making 
a supported return to work. In December 2016,  his treating specialist reported that, although 
Mr S suffered  intermittent  pain, he was able to walk up and down stairs without discomfort, 
ride a bike and visit the gym. In January 2017,  his GP confirmed that Mr S was able to 
undertake desk-based duties. 
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for L&G to terminate 
the claim in February  2017 on the grounds  that Mr S was no longer incapacitated. I note that 
his GP was continuing  to sign him off work  but Im not persuaded by this because  she had 
separately confirmed  he was able to do a desk-based job. While Mr S might  have  been  
prevented from undertaking a full range of physical activities, such as sport, following his 
knee surgery, it seems  he was capable of performing  his sedentary occupation. 
Furthermore, there is no indication that his previous low mood  had developed to the extent  
that it rendered  him unable  to work.  L&G additionally  paid a further two months benefit to 
help ease Mr Ss transition back to the workplace  and Im satisfied this was fair.
Mr S has said that he underwent further  surgery after L&G terminated the claim. He has 
provided evidence  of surgery which took place  on a day-patient basis  in September  2017, 
July 2018 and January 2019.
I accept that Mr S may have been  unable to work for a time following these surgeries, 
particularly the last two. However, Mr S never went back  to work after his claim was 
terminated. The policy states that if an insured member is temporarily  absent  from active 
employment for reasons other than illness or injury  (as appears  to be the case  with Mr S) 
cover will continue for that member only if the period of absence  (which must not be longer 
than one year)  is defined at the start and is notified in writing  to L&G by Mr Ss employer 
within one month. L&G says it received no notification by Mr Ss employer and his absence  
was for an undefined period which eventually exceeded a year. I agree that by staying off 
work in this way, Mr S effectively removed himself  from cover  under the policy.  L&G 
therefore has no liability for any period of incapacity which Mr S may have suffered following 
the termination of his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9036536