K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Day Payment  and Forex Limited mislaid the money  she was 
transferring to an account in South America. 
background 
Mrs B regularly used Day Forex to transfer  money from her UK account to a family account 
in Brazil. All transfers have taken longer than the promised 2 to 3 working days. 
On 25 October 2018, and before leaving for a holiday  in Brazil, Mrs B transferred £500 to 
use whilst  she was there. The money  still hasnt arrived.
Mrs B complained to Day Forex that it appeared to have lost her money, and that her long 
planned holiday in Brazil had been  spoilt as a result.
The only response  from Day Forex to Mrs B has been that there  is a legal battle and that her 
transfer is somehow  caught up in this. Mrs B therefore brought her complaint to us.
In line with our standard practice our investigator  contacted Day Forex  and requested  its 
case file on Mrs Bs complaint. Day Forex has not responded  despite  frequent further 
attempts to secure its explanation about  what has happened here.  
Our investigator therefore reached his view solely on the basis of information supplied  by 
Mrs B. And in summary he found that Day Forex failed to transfer  Mrs Bs £500. To all 
intents and purposes Day Forex lost the money  and Mrs B was very significantly 
inconvenienced whilst  on holiday. Additionally, Day Forex has taken longer than it should  
have done to process many other such  transfers  made by Mrs B.
Given this our investigator considered that Day Forex  should repay  Mrs B the missing £500  
having added 8% interest, and pay her an additional  £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her.
Day Forex didnt  respond  to the investigators view, and so the complaint has come to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has provided details of her £500  transfer on 25 October. These include the recipients  
account, a receipt  number  and the exchange  rate applied.  Mrs B says this money never 
arrived and is still missing. In the absence of any response from Day Forex, and on the basis  
of the details from Mrs B, I accept  that Day Forex hasnt transferred her money as it should  
have done. It may be that there is a reasonable explanation for what  has happened here, but 
Day Forex has maintained its silence on the matter. In my judgment it is therefore entirely 
reasonable to require  Day Forex to refund Mrs Bs missing  £500 with additional simple 
interest of 8%.
Mrs B has also given  us details of other transfers shes  made using Day Forex  with 
transaction dates  and dates the money  was finally credited to the receiving  account.  These  
transfers have  all taken  longer than the 2 to 3 working days Mrs B says Day Forex  promises.
Ref: DRN94984812Given this, and also to compensate  Mrs B for the worry and inconvenience she was caused 
by the failed transfer she had intended to use on her holiday, I shall require Day Forex to pay 
a further £200 compensation.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Day Payment  and Forex  Limited  to:
refund  Mrs Bs missing  £500  having added  simple  interest  of 8% from 30 October 
2018 to the date it makes the payment; and
pay Mrs B £200 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9498481