K820x#14complaint
J is unhappy about an issue experienced when trying to open an account  with Barclays Bank  
UK PLC.
background
J wanted to complete an application for a new account but wasnt  able to proceed without 
selecting a title. J feels this is unfair. Its not a legal requirement to input a title. 
J feels Barclays response was poor and wants the bank to make the field non-mandatory.
Barclays apologised for any distress or inconvenience caused. The bank confirmed it was 
aware of the issue. And its technology team were  working on a fix. 
J wasnt satisfied with Barclays  response  and contacted our service.  Our investigator looked 
into the matter and understood Js frustration. She could see Barclays agreed the title field 
shouldnt be compulsory. And it was trying  to correct the issue.  So she felt Barclays had 
dealt with Js complaint  satisfactorily.
J didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision. Barclays hadnt acknowledged  
what it was doing  to fix the problem. And there were other issues  it hadnt addressed relating 
to ethnicity and religion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has raised a number of concerns around Barclays need for a title when completing an 
application for a new account. And I understand the points J has made around different 
religions and cultures and how they might be addressed.
But the complaint relates to Js inability to complete  a new account application without 
selecting a title. So Ive focused my decision on that concern.
Barclays has acknowledged  its application process shouldnt require a title before 
completion. And it informed J that the matter  was being worked on. I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to provide a firm deadline for when the fix might be in place. But I do think Barclays 
has responded appropriately  to Js concern. And Im sure it will remove  the need for a title in 
due course.
Its not the role of this service to tell Barclays how to run its business.  Thats  the role of its 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. So I dont have the power to ask the bank to 
consider how it deals with the wider issues J has raised. But Im sure Barclays does take 
note of the outcome of all of the complaints  it receives to see if it can improve things.
Our role is to see if Barclays has made a mistake. And if so what  it needs to do to put things 
right. Barclays has agreed that J shouldnt need to select a title when opening a new 
account. And it has said its technology team  is working to correct  the problem.
Ref: DRN91582882I realise J doesnt feel Barclays has clearly addressed  all of the points and feels  some of the 
responses are generic.  But I think the bank has responded fairly to the complaint. And I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9158288