K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that AXA France IARD  (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
AXA is the insurer in this case,  but it has accepted responsibility for the sale. So for clarity I 
will refer to it as the seller. 
background
Miss B took out a store  card in September 2001. In February 2002 Miss B was sold a PPI 
policy over the phone.  The policy would  have paid 15% of her outstanding  balance from the 
point of claim for as long as she was off sick or out of work. Miss B paid £64.50  for the PPI 
over the life of the policy. 
Miss B says she didnt  agree to the PPI being  added. 
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld.  Miss B disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss B didnt take out her policy  when she took out her card. She took it out during a phone 
call about five months later. AXA has provided  evidence to show this is what happened.  As 
the sale took place five months after Miss B received the card I think she would have  known 
she had a choice  about taking the policy. Miss B says she doesnt remember  any phone  call. 
But it was over 17 years ago, so I wouldnt expect  her to.  I dont think the policy could  have 
been added  without her consent. And as it appeared on each of her statements I think  if she 
hadnt agreed to it she would  have  queried  it when she saw it. 
So, on balance, I think its likely Miss B agreed  to take the PPI knowing she had a choice 
about it.
Its not clear whether  AXA would have given Miss B a personalised recommendation about 
the policy. I have  treated  this case as if AXA did do this, because  it holds them  to a higher 
standard. It means  AXA would have needed to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the 
policy was right for Miss B.
Looking at Miss Bs circumstances  at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for Miss 
B. I say this because:
Miss B was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have  made it more difficult for her to make  a successful claim, 
such as those related  to self-employment  or existing  medical  conditions;
Ref: DRN90325232Miss B wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay or redundancy pay from her 
employer. The policy would have paid 15% each month of her outstanding balance at 
the point of claim until she was able to return to work. So it offered a useful additional  
benefit;
Miss B didnt have  any other means  by which to make her repayments if she wasnt  
working;
The cost of the policy was greater than other  PPI policies for sale around  the time. 
But the benefit was significantly higher and would have paid off her entire balance in 
a few months if she made  a successful claim. 
Its possible AXA didnt give Miss B all the information she ideally should have received to 
make her decision. But I dont think more,  or better, information would have changed her 
mind about  buying  it because  the policy was suitable for her in the way Ive already 
described.
Miss B says if shed  realised she had the policy  she would have made a claim when she was 
made redundant or off sick during  the policy term. I dont know  whether Miss B could have 
made a successful claim, but she has been advised  to contact AXA if she wants  to find out if 
she can make a retrospective claim.
I dont think Miss B lost out as a result of anything AXA might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint, so it follows that AXA France  IARD doesnt  have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9032523