K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Origen Financial  Services Limited (Origen) advised  him against 
transferring the value  of his preserved  pension benefits in a former employers pension  
scheme.   
background
In early 2018 Mr Gs former  employers  pension scheme decided to offer deferred members  
including Mr G an enhanced transfer  value (ETV).  In Mr Gs case the ETV was £146,333 
which was £6,595.61 more than the CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) that would  
ordinarily have been available  if Mr G had wanted to transfer out of the scheme. Origen  had 
been appointed to provide members  who might be interested in taking an ETV with free 
advice.   
Mr G wanted to transfer the value of his benefits  to his existing SIPP (self invested personal 
pension). His reasons  included:
Taking 25% as a cash lump sum to pay off a large  part of his mortgage.
Increasing any death benefits  for his wife and children. 
Drawing more from his pension earlier in his retirement than he could do as a 
member of his employers pension scheme.
Having more control over his investments.   
I understand that Mr Gs existing SIPP provider was offering £500 as an incentive  to transfer 
and wouldnt  charge an annual administration fee until he started investing. 
Origen didnt recommend  that Mr G transfer. Origen  said he should  remain  a member of his 
employers pension scheme. Origen  noted that Mr G could use tax free cash to reduce his 
mortgage. But Origen said he was currently meeting that liability from income.  He could use 
cash from his business instead or clear the mortgage when he downsized.  
Origen also said that Mr Gs existing SIPP provided flexibility  without risking  the guaranteed  
benefits from his former employers scheme.  That provided a secure  baseline  income,  
increased each  year and was inflation proofed (in payment).  The required level of growth to 
match (at age 60) the benefits Mr G would be giving up  the critical yield  looked  
improbable. Mr Gs attitude  to risk was cautious and those sorts of funds werent suitable for 
long term growth. Origen said it would  expect someone to be able to accept at least a 
moderate degree of risk before  considering  a flexi access drawdown arrangement.  
Mr G didnt accept that. He thought the ETV offered good value  hed calculated  that his 
pension payments from the employers pension scheme for twenty five years from age 60 
would be less than the ETV. 
In response the Origens adviser referred  to the transfer value analysis (TVAS) undertaken 
by a specialist  actuarial  service provider and which didnt support a transfer.
Mr G wrote to Origen on 17 April 2018  confirming that he wanted to transfer contrary to 
Origens recommendation.  Hed explained how hed be able to build up a pension fund in 
excess of £1 million  using  cash from his business at retirement, the value  of his other 
pension plans, including his existing SIPP into which hed be making further  contributions,  
and releasing  equity by downsizing.  
Ref: DRN98906892Amongst other things he said Origen hadnt  made it clear  at the outset  that the transfer 
couldnt be recommended  if he presented as risk averse. Mr G said hed have made it clear 
that his risk strategy was likely to change once he was sure his retirement finances were  in 
place. He said the critical yields were based  on speculation as to fund performance and 
there was nothing to say he couldnt achieve  higher returns. And he did need to access  his 
benefits  he needed capital to pay of his mortgage.  He didnt want  to lose the ETV and he 
asked the adviser  to reconsider. 
Origens adviser issued  a further report. It said Mr G wanted  to go against  the financial 
advice Origen gave in its original suitability report.  Origen had agreed to proceed with Mr Gs 
insistent request and would  provide a recommendation for the provider and fund selection 
only, even though it believed what Mr G was doing wasnt in his best interests. 
As Origen  had advised against  transferring, Mr Gs existing SIPP  provider wouldnt accept 
the transfer in. Mr G had to transfer  first to another SIPP on an insistent  client basis and then 
transfer from that SIPP to his existing SIPP. 
Mr G complained to Origen.  It didnt  uphold his complaint. Origen maintained  its advice not 
to transfer was suitable for Mr G taking into account his circumstances  and his attitude to 
investment risk. 
Mr G asked us to look into what had happened. But our adjudicator agreed with Origen that 
its advice had been suitable  and so she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G didnt accept that. Amongst other things he maintained that the ETV offered good  
value. Even  a conservative approach  to risk can produce a reasonable yield. His previous 
employer had said, on offering the ETV,  that the pension  was unlikely to increase as 
previously as the scheme was being  restructured. Paying  off his mortgage was in his best 
interests and would save him money every  month. That hadnt  been taken into account.  The 
full transfer value of his SIPP would  be paid to his wife and children  if he died. His wife would 
have only got a percentage of his pension with nothing for the children. He hadnt seen any 
calculations to show those death  benefits  were better.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G feels very strongly about the issue. Hes explained very clearly  why he 
considers transferring would have been in his best interests. Ive considered  all hes said 
very carefully. 
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr G but I cant agree with him. Ive explained why 
below.
Essentially I agree with what Origen has said about why it was unable to recommend a 
transfer. The transfer wasnt financially viable. That wasnt  the only factor  that was taken into 
consideration. But Mr Gs reasons  for wanting  to proceed werent sufficient and his 
Ref: DRN98906893circumstances overall,  including his attitude  to investment risk, didnt support a 
recommendation to transfer. 
As the adjudicator said, the starting  point is what the regulator says about  transfers. COBS  
19.1.6R says:
(2) When advising a retail  client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.
(3)  A firm should only then consider a transfer,  conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary  evidence, that the transfer,  conversion  or opt-out is in 
the clients best interests.
As Mr G has pointed  out, that doesnt  mean that a transfer will always be unsuitable and as 
sub paragraph (3) makes  clear. Sub paragraph  (4) sets out the factors  a firm should take 
into account in demonstrating that a transfer, conversion or opt-out is suitable.  
In considering if a transfer is suitable,  we usually take the view that there has to be a 
reasonable prospect that the consumer will be better  off financially by transferring. The 
adviser needs to be able to show that a comparison  was made between the benefits that 
would be given up in the ceding scheme and the benefits that the new arrangement  might  
provide. That isnt the only criterion. Wed  also look at the consumers reasons for 
transferring. And wed take into account the consumers position  generally, including what  
other retirement provision  the consumer might  have, his attitude  to risk and capacity for loss. 
Looking first at the financial  viability, Origen  was required to carry out a TVAS.  Thats  a 
complex calculation  based on known and assumed  factors  and is often, as here, undertaken 
by a specialist  third party. It assesses the benefits  likely to be paid and the options available  
under the ceding scheme, including  death  benefits.  It works out the critical yield  the rate of 
growth required to match  the benefits  given up by transferring. 
I know Mr G has carried  out his own calculations.  But the TVAS  is an in depth actuarial 
calculation based  on the overall  value of the benefits being given up. I think  Origen rightly 
relied on it as an accurate  calculation of the rate of growth the ETV needed to achieve  to 
match the benefits Mr G would be giving up. 
I agree  with Origen that the critical yield was too high  particularly at age 60 (which  was 
when Mr G had said he wanted  to retire) but also at his normal  scheme  retirement date (age 
65). The growth  rates used  for lower risk investments were unlikely to be achieved. On that 
basis it was likely that Mr G  whod  been assessed as a cautious investor - would be 
financially worse off by transferring. 
I dont agree with what Mr Gs said about how Origen  approached  his attitude to risk. From 
what Ive seen Origen correctly assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk as cautious and took that 
into account in recommending that he didnt transfer. I dont agree  with any suggestion that 
Origen should have  indicated  to Mr G that revising  his attitude to risk might  enable Origen to 
recommend the transfer. I think Origen would  have been open to criticism in that sort of 
scenario. 
I note what Mr Gs said about wanting to pay off some of his mortgage  and the savings hed 
Ref: DRN98906894make by doing that. But it doesnt seem that his financial position was difficult.  Or that, if he 
didnt get a tax free lump  sum from his pension,  his ability to continue  to service  his 
mortgage was in doubt, putting his home at risk. Mr Gs pension  provision was to support 
him in retirement.  The central issue was whether hed be better off when he retired  if he 
transferred. I also note Mr Gs comments about the death benefits. But I dont  think, in this 
particular case,  that was a main driver for the transfer. 
All in all I cant say that Origens recommendation against transferring was unsuitable. Thats  
not to say that another adviser would have  given the same advice. But I think  the reasons 
Origen gave for being unable to advise  Mr G to transfer were  valid and clearly  explained  to 
Mr G. Origen  did then go on to assist Mr G in achieving his objective  by processing his 
transfer request  as an insistent client. Mr G wasnt able to transfer directly  to his existing 
SIPP but he did achieve his objective in the end. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.   
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890689