K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them the PPI. The policy 
covered only Mr C if he was unable to work because of illness,  injury  or unemployment.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagree,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 30 November  2018  I set out why I wasnt  minded  to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs C have made 
any further submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that: 
Currently, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say that they took the PPI because  they thought it was compulsory as they 
were led to believe everything they signed  for was compulsory. They add they didnt know  
PPI had been added or that it was optional. Lloyds says it wouldve made the optional  nature 
of the PPI clear, and it wouldve  asked for their consent before adding  it to their account. 
Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide  what I think  is more likely based on the 
evidence available. So Ive thought carefully about  everything Mr and Mrs C have said in 
addition to looking at the documentary evidence available.
Lloyds has sent us Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application which  had a separate  section for 
PPI. There was one box to tick to add PPI and one box to tick to decline it. On Mr and 
Mrs Cs form, the box to add PPI has been ticked. But as there was an option  to decline PPI, 
I think it wouldve been clear that Mr and Mrs C couldve declined PPI. Theyve gone on to 
sign a PPI proposal form requesting 100 % of cover for Mr C only. And although I 
understand these  forms were completed  in branch, I wouldve expected them  to have looked  
over the forms before  signing them.
Overall, I think its more  likely Lloyds made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the
PPI and they chose  to take it out to cover Mr C only.
Lloyds says it advised Mr C (as the sole policy holder) to take the PPI. But Mr and Mrs C 
dont think it did. If Lloyds  did advise  Mr C to take the PPI, it places a higher responsibility  on 
it, as this means Lloyds  had to check the PPI was right for him. As this policy  was sold in a 
meeting in branch, I think its more likely to have been advised so Ive assessed the case on 
Ref: DRN92947752that basis. And based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  I think the PPI 
was right for him.
Mr C was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on  
the PPI cover. Mr and Mrs C also seem  to have had a need for the cover. Mr C has told us 
he had three  months statutory sick pay provided  by his employer but I understand hes 
mentioned a different employer on his questionnaire than that recorded on his mortgage 
application form. In any event, as he was employed, I think  its likely he wouldve had some 
sick pay provided by his employer at the time. Mr and Mrs C also said they had a number of 
life insurance and critical illness policies in place.
But this policy couldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr C might  have had and for up to 12 
months if Mr C was unable to work because of illness or injury. It also couldve provided up 
to 12 months of cover for unemployment. Life insurance and critical illness  cover  do not 
provide the same type of cover as PPI. So, based on everything Ive seen, I think the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable.
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment secured on their home  and the 
consequence of not being able to make repayments  can be serious.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  
didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair 
in this case.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings  as set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN92947753what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Lloyds should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should 
also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
* Businesses  have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9294775