K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2010. He said he wasnt told enough about  it and he didnt need 
any PPI.
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr S with a view that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. But Mr S didnt  agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint but Capital One has agreed to 
pay some  money back for the commission it got from the sale.
It seems  the PPI was added when Mr S phoned  up Capital One to activate his new credit 
card. Weve  seen a few similar sales to this and as a consequence,  weve  looked  carefully  at 
what we think consumers  were told during the call.
So, for example,  weve seen that Capital One told its tele-sales staff to follow  a script when 
selling this type of cover over the phone. And having  examined  the script,  we think  the cost 
of the policy  and optional nature of the PPI would have probably been  made  clear  enough.
I cant say this was done  for sure in Mr Ss case because we no longer have a recording to 
listen to. But looking carefully at his points of complaint, I think hed have known  the PPI 
wasnt something he needed to have. Hed applied  for his credit card on-line and would have 
already had the card issued to him when he rang up to get it activated. I also see that he 
retained his card for quite a few years and my experience  is that he would have  seen the 
PPI being charged  in his monthly  credit  card statements over that extended time period.
The central point  of complaint, made  on Mr Ss behalf, is that he didnt need the cover 
because he already had some  protection through his job. I do understand  why hes said this 
but Im afraid this doesnt  necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt of use.
This is because I think Mr S was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The PPI wouldve covered Mr S in the 
event of him being  unable  to work or losing his job and in the event of a successful claim the 
PPI wouldve  paid off 10% of his outstanding  credit card balance for up to a year.  This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  he had in place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mr S decided to buy this policy,  I can see how it was of use to 
him and as a non-advised sale, it was Mr Ss choice about whether  or not he wanted the 
cover. Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but I dont think this policy  was mis-sold. Which means 
Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to him.
Ref: DRN90487172But it has agreed to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because when the policy 
was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Capital One 
didnt tell him, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what Capital  One needs to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Capital One has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Mr S any 
extra interest he paid because of that. Capital One should re-work the credit card account  
and pay back to Mr S the difference  between  what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if 
the commission and profit share  it got hadnt  been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. It should 
also pay Mr S 8%* simple  interest  if Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048717