K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) mis-sold him the PPI. Ill refer to 
the business as First Direct in my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, a copy of the exact policy  terms relevant  to 
Mr Js PPI policy arent available. This isnt very unusual. Ive considered the nearest  
relevant policy  terms alongside  PPI policies  sold by First Direct over a longer period of time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think First Direct made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  I've seen a copy of Mr Js credit card application. On page  seven  
of the application there  were two options  for PPI. There was an option  to accept PPI 
and an option  to decline PPI.
A tick has been placed next to the option  to add PPI and Mr J has signed the overall 
application form  so I think this indicates  what he wanted.
First Direct didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr J got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information First Direct  gave  Mr J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time - including  his 
employment situation, alongside  the nearest relevant policy document,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the likely exclusions to or usual  limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong   particularly as 
Mr J has told us that he had no other  means of making his repayments  if he was 
unable to work or made unemployed. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means First Direct doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But First Direct will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because : 
Ref: DRN90534362First Direct got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because First Direct didnt tell 
Mr J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, First Direct has basically offered  to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
I understand  Mr J is, or was in an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (known as 
an IVA)  that failed,  and his insolvency practitioner may have  an interest in this PPI 
compensation. So Mr J may have  to give some, or all, of the compensation to his 
insolvency practitioner. Mr J should keep this in mind. He may need  to speak to the 
insolvency practitioner about any compensation he gets.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also noted  that Mr J has made reference to periods  when he wasnt working and not 
being able to claim on the policy.  This isnt something that my decision addresses and Mr J 
has the option of speaking  to First Direct further about this if its something hes still unhappy  
about.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) has to pay back  to Mr J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading 
as First Direct) should also pay back to Mr J any extra interest he paid because of that.
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) should  re-work  the credit  card account and pay 
back to Mr J the difference  between what he owes and what he wouldve owed  if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) should also pay Mr J 8%* simple  interest  if he paid off his 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr J can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN90534363my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) does have to pay back  to Mr J any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if it hasnt 
already done so.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053436