K820x#14Complaint
Ms Bs unhappy with CIGNA Life Insurance Company  of Europe SA-NVs (CIGNA) dealings  
with her in relation to a private  medical  insurance  (PMI) policy.
Background
Essentially, Ms Bs policy was in force for a few years before CIGNA cancelled  it with effect 
from December 2015. The reason  it gave  was that Ms B hadnt kept up to date with her 
monthly premium payments as per the contract. 
Ms B complained because she didnt think CIGNA had acted fairly in cancelling  the policy  or 
in line with the relevant policy terms regarding its cancellation. CIGNA rejected the complaint 
and said it wasnt prepared to reinstate  the policy on the original terms.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  As Ms B didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings,  the case was passed to me to review afresh.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs raised a number of issues in referring this matter to us. Ive considered  them all in 
reaching this decision  but have focussed  on the issues that I believe form the crux of her 
complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Regarding the cancellation of the policy,  the terms state CIGNA can cancel the policy  if any 
premium is not paid in full within  30 days of the date on which  it is due. 
CIGNAs provided a copy of a schedule of payments made by Ms B from the start of the 
policy to its cancellation.  This shows she missed  a number of premium payments in that 
time. In fact, she missed  far more premium  payments than she paid on time.  That being the 
case, and taking into account  the policy terms, Im satisfied that CIGNA was entitled to reach 
the decision it did to ultimately cancel the policy.
Ive considered the way in which CIGNA went about cancelling  the policy. Going back to the 
policy terms, they say CIGNA  will give the insured written notice if its going to cancel 
because of the non-payment  of any premium. The policy terms also say:
 if we need to give you notice that we are going  to amend or terminate this policy,  
we will write  to you at the address which you gave us.  
I can see that CIGNA emailed Ms B on a number of occasions while the policy was in force  
to let her know premiums were overdue  and providing contact  details to resolve  the issue.  
The emails  made clear her policy coverage was at risk of being affected and/or would 
potentially be cancelled.  
Ms B suggests she interpreted the policy wording to mean shed receive notification of the 
termination of the policy  by postal  address rather  than email, but thats  not my understanding 
of the policy  terms. I think CIGNA  was entitled to use the email address Ms B provided in 
sending those notifications. Further, its clear from the call recordings Ive listened to that  
Ref: DRN91311702regardless of the arguments surrounding her preferred method of contact  Ms B was in fact 
aware that CIGNA had been chasing missed payments  and of the potential  consequences of 
non-payment.
Ive carefully considered  what Ms Bs said about a member of her family  having also 
experienced problems with CIGNA. She says this shows  CIGNA  frequently experienced 
difficulties collecting premiums and that it advised customers  to ignore its emails chasing  
payments or threatening cancellation. Nevertheless, its not for me to comment  in this 
decision on Ms Bs family members dealings with CIGNA. As Ive said,  I believe CIGNA was 
entitled to cancel Ms Bs policy in the circumstances and that it went about doing  so fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.  
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9131170