K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that TSB Bank plc failed to update their credit  files, which  resulted in 
them losing the mortgage they wanted  to apply  for and having to take another,  more 
expensive, mortgage.  
background 
Mr and Mrs H decided to buy a house, and contacted a mortgage broker. The broker  
produced an illustration from a high street  lender Ill call H. This showed a mortgage with a 
fixed rate of 3.01% for two years.
Mr and Mrs H had previously had some  financial difficulty  and had a current  account  with an 
overdraft with TSB. Mrs H also had a personal loan in her sole name. Unfortunately,  they 
were unable to pay the loan and the overdraft, and TSB recorded on their credit files that 
both were in default  from around 2014.  The overdraft balance was over £1,000 and the loan 
balance was over £10,000. Mr and Mrs H have been making nominal payments each month  
since then, with the help of a debt counselling firm.
Mr and Mrs Hs broker told them that they wouldnt be able to get a mortgage unless the 
outstanding default was cleared.
So Mr and Mrs H paid off the full outstanding overdraft balance  to TSB. But there  was no 
change to their credit  files. 
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs H say they were concerned about not being able to buy a 
home. They went with a different broker, which arranged them a mortgage with a specialist 
lender  paying 5.73% a month rather than 3.01%.
Mr and Mrs H complained. They  said they had a mortgage offer from H, and their broker  had 
told them  they just needed to get the overdraft  paid off for the mortgage with H to go ahead. 
So they paid TSB,  but it didnt remove the default  from their credit file. If it had, they said, 
they would  have got the cheaper mortgage  with C and have lost out as a result.
Our investigator didnt  think he could  fairly  say that Mr and Mrs H would have  got a mortgage 
with H even if TSB had recorded that Mr and Mrs H had repaid the overdraft. But he said 
there had been  a delay of several months in TSB updating their credit files, so he said it 
should pay them £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to review  their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustrations about TSBs delay in updating their credit  file. 
Its said it generally reports  changes to the credit  reference agencies  automatically once a 
month, and so it can take six to eight weeks for a change to take effect. Thats  not 
unreasonable. But thats not what happened  here. Instead, TSB removed Mr and Mrs H from 
the automatic  updates because theyd  complained,  but didnt make a manual amendment 
either. It didnt do anything until our investigator  got involved. I dont  think  that was fair, and I 
Ref: DRN95199072see no good reason for the delay.  So I think its clear  TSB made  a mistake here  what I 
need to decide is what it needs  to do to put matters right.
What it needs to do depends  on the consequences of the mistake. Mr and Mrs H say the 
main consequence  is that they lost a mortgage offer with H, and had to take a much  more 
expensive mortgage  instead. Ive carefully considered everything theyve said. But I dont 
think the evidence  supports  that.
The normal  process  when  applying for a mortgage via a broker  is for the broker to find out 
about the borrowers circumstances  and what they want,  and to search  the market  for 
matching mortgages.  The broker then produces  an illustration of the sort of mortgage they 
could apply for on the borrowers behalf, and makes the application.
The lender  then considers the initial information, and makes an initial  assessment. At that 
stage, the lender will either refuse  to consider  the application, or issue  a decision in principle. 
A decision in principle is not an offer of a mortgage;  it sets out the maximum the lender will 
consider lending, and confirms it will consider the application. It then looks at the application  
in more detail,  including  full evidence of the borrowers circumstances, and also considers 
whether the property is good security. Only then, if satisfied with everything,  does it make  a 
mortgage offer.
We asked H what happened  in this case. It says the broker submitted an initial application, 
which was declined at decision  in principle stage because of credit score.
Mr and Mrs H have given us an illustration  from the broker, not an offer from H  which also 
shows that their application  to H didnt get past the very first stage. So they didnt have an 
offer of a mortgage from H, and were a long way from getting  one.
And the message theyve shown us from the broker doesnt say that H will give them  a 
mortgage if the overdraft is paid off. It says that because  of outstanding defaults, it cannot  
place them with a lender   any lender; theres no mention of H. This is consistent with H 
having rejected  the application because of credit score. 
Mr and Mrs H paid off the defaulted overdraft. TSB should have marked  that on their credit  
file. But even if it had, the fact that they had defaulted would still be there; the record would 
just show that theyd since paid off the default.  And the default on the  much larger   
personal loan would  still be on Mrs Hs credit file too, and that still wouldnt be paid off. So 
Mr and Mrs H would  still have had impacted credit  scores. Another ombudsman has already 
said that the loan wasnt mis-sold  so there was no prospect of that default being  removed.
If TSB had updated their credit records sooner, Mr and Mrs Hs credit  score might have 
improved a little. But theres no evidence that would be enough to persuade H to lend to 
them. Theres nothing from H, or their broker, to suggest that. Given that both defaults would 
still be there, and the much bigger  one would still be outstanding, I dont think its likely H 
would have changed its mind. Mr and Mrs H would still have had to go to the other  lender, 
and would still have  ended up taking out the same mortgage as they actually did. I dont 
think TSBs delay caused them any financial loss in that respect.
However, as Ive said TSB ordinarily updates credit files once a month  but it removed 
Mr and Mrs H from the automatic update because of their complaint. And it didnt update 
their records  manually  either. Mr and Mrs H were anxious about what  was happening,  and 
Ref: DRN95199073further inconvenienced by TSBs delay in recording  the overdraft as paid off. I agree that 
£200 is fair compensation for their trouble and upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9519907