K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Mrs P are unhappy with the increases on their premiums  on their home insurance 
policy, held with St Andrews Insurance Plc (StAIP).
background
Mr F and Mrs Ps home insurance policy with StAIP started in September  2010. It provided 
them with buildings and contents insurance and it also included  home  emergency  cover.
It initially cost £572.80 for the year. 
In April 2011, Mr F and Mrs P claimed  under the policy with the claim totalling £13,451.84.  
This resulted in Mr F and Mrs P losing  their relevant no claims discount (NCD). So when 
the policy renewed in 2011, it cost £890.87.
The policys  cost increased  gradually over the years and in 2016, Mr F and Mrs Ps annual 
premium was £1,679.53.
Unhappy with the cost, Mr F and Mrs P didnt renew  the policy in 2017.  Mr F and Mrs P 
switched insurer with Mr F explaining that the new insurance they obtained cost around 
£210.
 
Because of this Mr F and Mrs P say they dont think they had been  treated fairly by StAIP 
and StAIP  had taken  advantage by unfairly  increasing the cost of the policy  every  year.  They 
say they were charged too much  and should be reimbursed for the extra they considered 
they had paid over the years. 
StAIP reviewed Mr F and Mrs Ps concerns. It said the premiums charged over the years  
were correct and were in line with changes to its general rates and changes in
rates relating  to specific postcode areas.  
But, in order  to try and resolve Mr F and Mrs Ps complaint,  StAIP offered £775.00 for their 
concerns about  the cost of the insurance. StAIP also offered £25 as compensation for the 
customer service  it provided to Mr F during a telephone  call and a further £50 for the delay in 
responding to Mr F and Mrs Ps concerns.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F referred the complaint to our service.
Recently, our investigator explained to Mr F and Mrs P they thought StAIPs offer was fair. 
As Mr F and Mrs P disagree, the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I think StAIP has offered and paid fair 
compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F and Mrs P, so Id like to 
explain why.
Ref: DRN92471612First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
My role allows me to see whether StAIP has treated Mr F and Mrs P fairly during the time 
they held their policy. So in this case,  whether StAIP unfairly increased the cost of the 
insurance each  year just because Mr F and Mrs P werent engaging with each  renewal.
If I find that StAIP hasnt treated Mr F and Mrs P fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair. And in this case, whether I think what StAIP  has offered is fair.
StAIP has explained that when Mr F and Mrs P took out their policy in 2010  it included an 
introductory discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced  lower  to 
attract new customers. And I dont think its unfair for an insurer  to seek  to recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years.
In the following year, there was a successful claim under the policy  for around £13,500. This 
resulted in Mr F and Mrs P losing their relevant NCD. 2011s renewal premium was £890.87.
It appears that Mr F and Mrs P didnt engage  with StAIP about the renewal  quotes  they were  
given each year, and their premium continued  to increase each year. 
If StAIP should have  realised Mr F and Mrs P werent the type of people  who shopped 
around for cheaper  insurance regularly, and if it increased the price just because  they didnt 
engage at renewal, that wouldnt be fair. 
In order to determine this, I would look at what point StAIP should have reasonably  known 
that Mr F and Mrs P werent engaging with their renewals and then see if they had been 
treated unfairly  from this point. 
In the early years Mr F and Mrs P held their policy StAIP wouldnt have been known that 
they werent engaging with their renewals   that wouldnt have been known for some years.  
Also StAIP,  in those early years, would have been recouping the initial discount it had 
applied to the policy when it was taken  out in 2010.
So, having  looked at Mr F and Mrs Ps journey, I would  say the point at which  they were 
being treated  unfairly would be 2014.  Thats  because by 2014, StAIP should have known 
Mr F and Mrs P werent engaging and Mr F and Mrs Ps premiums continued to increase  
each year. 
To put things right in this type of situation I would ask StAIP to keep Mr F and Mrs Ps yearly  
home insurance premium  at 2014s price,  paying  Mr F and Mrs P the difference  they paid 
over that amount  for each  subsequent  year thereafter.  
StAIP says that if it applied this method, Mr F and Mrs P would  be entitled to around 
£400.00. But StAIP has offered Mr F and Mrs P £775.00 for the concerns they had about the 
cost of their policy, which is more than what I would tell it to do.  
So I think StAIPs offer of £775.00  is fair.
Mr F and Mrs P think  that their compensation should be a lot higher. And thats because of 
the cheaper alternative policy  they obtained in 2017. Mr F and Mrs P want StAIP to pay them  
the difference between the two policies for the duration they held the policy.  
Ref: DRN92471613But the new home insurance  policy  Mr F and Mrs P obtained would have included a new 
customer introductory discount. As I have explained above, this is common practice and I 
think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount  over the subsequent years.  I dont think its 
fair to expect  an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration someone has their policy. 
So it wouldnt be fair for StAIP to use what Mr F and Mrs Ps new policy cost (which had a 
discount) when working out its offer. 
And Mr F and Mrs P, in working out what they think their compensation should be, have also 
considered the policys  full duration.  I dont think thats quite right,  Ill explain why. 
As explained earlier, in the earlier years of the policy, StAIP was recouping the initial 
discount applied  to the policy.  And StAIP wouldnt have known in the early  years 
Mr F and Mrs P held their policy that they werent the type of people to shop around for 
cheaper insurance regularly. 
So I wouldnt  expect StAIP to pay back any of the cost of the insurance  from the start of the 
policy as Mr F and Mrs P think should happen.  Im also mindful that Mr F and Mrs P agreed  
to the insurance  cost when they took out the policy in 2010,  so presumably they were happy 
with it then. 
 
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered StAIPs offer, I think its fair  and is 
more than what I would tell it to do. It makes sure Mr F and Mrs P havent lost out if StAIP 
did increase the price  just because Mr F and Mrs P didnt shop around  regularly  or didnt 
engage at each renewal in the later years  of the policy.
I also think StAIPs additional  compensation offer of £75, for the trouble caused to 
Mr F and Mrs P throughout their complaint, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr F and Mrs Ps complaint. St Andrews 
Insurance Plc has offered  and paid fair compensation and doesnt need  to do anything  
further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9247161