K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Limited  wont refund to him the money that he paid for some  
in-car multimedia audio visual equipment. His complaint is made  against  NewDay under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 and the chargeback  rules.  
background
Mr C used his NewDay credit card in September 2017 to pay £589.98 for some in-car 
multimedia audio  visual equipment. When he had it installed he realised that it wasnt  
working correctly so he contacted the supplier. He says that he was told that he needed  to 
send the equipment to a third party service  centre  for a repair. He wanted  the equipment 
replaced or a refund  so he contacted NewDay.  It made a chargeback request to the 
supplier  but it was defended by the supplier because Mr C hadnt  sent the equipment to 
the service centre.  So it considered Mr Cs claim under section  75  but it concluded that 
there hadnt been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. It paid him £15 
to cover his call costs and £30 compensation for the length  of time itd taken to investigate 
his complaint. But Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
thered been a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But she said that the 
compensation that NewDay had paid to Mr C was fair in the circumstances. So she thought  
that NewDay had treated  Mr C fairly and wouldnt be asking it to do anything  further.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he had a contract with the supplier  so didn't want to send the equipment to a third party  
and that the equipment was faulty when it was sold to him. And he says that he wants a 
refund of the money that he paid for the equipment, all late payments charges to be removed 
from his account, any mention  of this removed from his credit  file and compensation from 
NewDay. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C bought the equipment in September 2017  and says that it was faulty when he bought it. 
But he didnt  contact  the supplier (or NewDay) until about two months later.  The supplier 
said that its terms and conditions provide for a replacement  if the equipment is returned 
within 14 days or a repair  at its third party service  centre if the equipment  is returned after 
more than 14 days.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made. 
When Mr C contacted NewDay  it requested a chargeback from the supplier. But the 
chargeback was defended because the supplier  said that it had offered Mr C a repair by its 
third party service centre but hed refused to send his equipment to the third party. So it says 
that it complied with its terms and conditions.  And I consider that NewDay  acted correctly  by 
making a chargeback request  even though it wasnt successful.
Ref: DRN93525052Mr C then claimed a refund from NewDay under  section 75. But NewDay said that there 
hadnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier because  it had 
followed its terms and conditions  and Mr C hadnt  sent the equipment to the third party 
service centre for a repair. It paid Mr C £15 to cover  his call costs £30 compensation for the 
length of time itd taken to investigate his complaint
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Cs complaint about  NewDay, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that NewDay's  response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome  of Mr Cs claim under  section 75 as only a court  would be able to 
do that.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence in these circumstances to show that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Mr C didnt contact the 
supplier about  a fault with the equipment until two months after hed bought it and the 
supplier says that it only replaces equipment that is returned to it within  14 days.  And it says 
that it told Mr C that he could send his equipment to a third party  service  centre for a repair  
but Mr C refused to do so. It was Mr Cs decision not to send his equipment to the third party 
service centre  and Im not persuaded that its unfair or unreasonable  for the supplier to 
offer a repair by a third party service centre. And I dont consider that Mr C was entitled  to a 
refund of the money that hed paid for the equipment in these circumstances.
So I consider that NewDay responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Cs claim for a refund 
under section 75. It paid £15 to Mr C to reimburse  him for his call costs   and it paid him £30 
to compensate him for its delay in investigating  his complaint. I find that to be fair and 
reasonable. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require NewDay to refund  to Mr C the money  that he paid for the equipment  or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the late payment charges have 
been applied  to Mr Cs account incorrectly  or that NewDay should  be required to remove 
any adverse information  from his credit file. Mr C says that hes now unemployed. If hes 
suffering financial  difficulties, I suggest  that he contacts NewDay about those difficulties. Its 
required to respond  to any financial difficulties that hes suffering both positively and 
sympathetically. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9352505