K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complained  that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited hasnt offered him enough to 
settle a claim under  his motor trade policy.
background
Mr W bought his policy with Tradewise through a broker.  The policy  has a £5,000 indemnity 
limit. When  Mr Ws car was damaged in a fire he claimed on his policy.  Tradewise said his 
car would be written-off (known as a total loss). But even though it was worth around  
£25,000 Tradewise  would  only pay £5,000  minus his £500 excess. As Mr W wanted  to keep 
the salvage Tradewise said it would deduct  another £1,417.04 for the salvage value. 
Mr W didnt think  this was fair and complained. He also complained to his broker  as he 
thought his policy had been  mis-sold.  Tradewise  didnt  think  it had done anything  wrong.  It 
said the indemnity  limit was set out in the policy Mr W had chosen  to buy. And as it had 
written-off the car it was entitled  to deduct salvage as Mr W was keeping  it. Tradewise  said 
the salvage value for the vehicle was £5,570.40. However, it had proportionately reduced the 
amount it charged  Mr W, as it wasnt paying  the cars full market value. Tradewise said he 
needed to pay his excess.
Our investigator thought Tradewise was entitled  to apply the indemnity limit in line with the 
policy. But as the value of the vehicle was much higher than the limit she didnt think it was 
fair for it to deduct the salvage value or excess. 
Tradewise didnt agree.  It said it was being penalised for Mr W undervaluing his car. It asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has also complained about his broker, but in this decision I can only comment on what  
Tradewise might, or might not, have done wrong.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws policy say, if the car is damaged, Tradewise wont  pay 
any more than the indemnity limit. I dont think Tradewise did anything  wrong  in setting this 
limit as I understand  it set the limit that Mr W and his broker  asked for. As this is the cover it 
agreed to provide Im not going to ask it to pay any more than the £5,000  limit.
I dont however think its fair and reasonable for Tradewise  to make any deductions from this 
limit. I accept its a general  principle  of insurance that when a vehicle is written-off  it 
becomes the property  of the insurer to sell for salvage. But in this case  Tradewise didnt pay 
Mr W the full total loss value, so I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to keep the salvage  
or to deduct a salvage value. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy say Tradewise will only be liable  for any amount over 
the excess shown  in the schedule. The schedule says theres a £500 excess for fire claims. 
As theres  an indemnity limit I dont  think its fair and reasonable for Tradewise to deduct an 
excess, as it means  it would never  pay the full amount its covering. The excess  should  be 
Ref: DRN93760822deducted from the total amount of the claim (ie the cars full value) and then Tradewise 
should cover  £5,000  of that amount in line with its indemnity limit.
In summary,  Tradewise should  pay Mr W a total of £5,000 to settle his claim. I understand it 
offered him £3,082.96 but this cheque wasnt cashed. As Tradewise shouldnt have 
deducted the additional £1,917.04 it should  pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of the fire to the date it makes payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Tradewise Insurance Company Limited  should  pay Mr W a total of 
£5,000 to settle his claim. It should  add interest on the additional £1,917.04 at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of the claim to the date it makes payment.1
Tradewise should  do this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Ws accepted my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Tradewise considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9376082