K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited cancelled his car insurance without 
making him aware it was going  to.
background
Mr A took out car insurance  with CIS. His daughter  Miss A, whos  representing him in this 
complaint, was a named driver.
Shortly after the policy was taken out, CIS wrote to Mr A asking for copies of the driving 
licences for all named  drivers. It said that if it didnt receive a reply it might  need to cancel 
the policy. When it didnt  receive a reply, CIS wrote to Mr A giving him seven days notice of 
cancellation, and then cancelled the policy.
Mr A and Miss A complained. They said they hadnt  received  the letters and didnt know the 
policy had been  cancelled. The cancellation  was unfair, and its meant they cant  afford 
insurance with another provider.
Our investigator didnt  think CIS had done enough to make  Mr A aware of the need to 
provide the driving licences and the risk of cancellation. CIS didnt agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The terms and conditions  of the insurance policy say this:
We may cancel this policy, including  any optional extras,  where  there is a 
valid reason for doing so, by sending  at least seven days  notice to your last 
known address setting  out the reason for cancellation. Wherever possible you 
will be given  the opportunity to provide an acceptable solution  before notice of 
cancellation is issued.  Valid reasons for cancellation  include
-Failure to provide information  or documentation requested  by us
So the terms entitled CIS to ask for the driving licences of all named  drivers. It sent 
the request to the address it had for Mr A. Three weeks later,  when it hadnt  had a 
reply, it sent the notice  of cancellation to the same address.  It also sent a copy  to 
Mr A by email. And a week after that, it cancelled the policy  and wrote to Mr A at the 
same address telling  him the policy  had been cancelled. 
I think that CIS has acted  in line with the terms and conditions. Its entitled to ask for 
the driving licences.  I think in the circumstances that was a reasonable request. It 
sent Mr A an email and three letters. Post does go astray from time to time, of course 
 but thats comparatively rare. I think  its very unlikely that three  separate letters  
were all lost in the post and so I think CIS did enough to notify Mr A that he was at 
risk of cancellation and to notify him of the cancellation. So in all the circumstances I 
dont think CIS has acted unfairly  in this case.
CIS said it had no further comments  to make.  Miss A said there  were  problems with the post 
at their address,  and they often received post intended for their neighbours. She said its 
unfair theyre  having problems finding alternative insurance.
Ref: DRN99513732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional decision. Ive taken into account what Miss A has 
said, but I havent seen any supporting evidence that there  are problems with the post at her 
address. I still think its very unlikely  that three separate letters  would all go astray.  And CIS 
also sent an email  and its not responsible for the postal  service. I think it did enough to 
notify Mr A and Miss A of the need for further  information and the risk of cancellation if it 
didnt get it. So I dont think CIS has acted unfairly in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9951373