K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S says The Co-operative Bank  PLC (The Co-op) mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought two policies  one in August 1999 and the other in June 2000. On both 
occasions they were  taking out further  advances on their existing mortgage which had been 
running since 1980. They applied for both further advances and the PPI policies in branch.  
The policies provided cover for Mr S for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  The first policy offered to repay £280 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £20 a 
month. The second policy offered to repay £38 a month and cost £2.28  a month.
At the time of both sales, Mr S was employed  as an HGV technician.  He has told us he was 
not entitled to any contractual  sick pay and didnt have  any other means  of repaying their 
mortgage should he have been unable to work.  Mr  S has said he was in good  health at the 
time of the sale. 
The Co-op has sent us evidence to show that the original  mortgage account closed in May 
2000, but the further advances were  still running.  A further advance  was taken (without PPI) 
in August 2005 which meant the whole account was closed and a new account opened on 
30 August 2005  incorporating all three further advances.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
The Co-op failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  The Co-op should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means The Co-op  should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN99021142The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
These sales took place  in 1999 and 2000  before the General  Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 (which became  effective from July 2000) 
and before the sale of general insurance products like this became regulated  in January 
2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and 
insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent  
Mr and Mrs S arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN99021143Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like The Co-op  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so The 
Co-op was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If The Co-op gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN99021144-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and The Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
The Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.  Mr and Mrs S havent 
suggested they didnt know they had a choice about taking the PPI. In both cases  Mr and 
Mrs S indicated on their application for the further  advance that they wanted  the PPI. It was 
clear there was a choice  on the form. And they completed separate proposal and direct debit 
forms for both of them. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  out without undue pressure. 
did The Co-op  provide  advice?
The Co-op says it didnt provide advice during these sales.  Mr and Mrs S dont know 
whether advice was provided.   Looking at what happened when The Co-op  sold Mr and Mrs 
S the PPI, Im satisfied it didnt provide advice. 
This means  The Co-op didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policies,  including  drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policies and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the policies were intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect their payments if 
Mr S was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policies without any sense of what they were for and of how much  
the premiums might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  The Co-op gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S 
agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of each policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN99021145Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ss. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that The Co-op ought  to have done either. 
what effect did The Co-ops shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that The Co-op  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold these policies to Mr 
and Mrs S. So Ive gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policies, had The Co-op done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken them out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr S being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take these policies out. So I consider  that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN99021146The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  the benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policies, such as the cost and the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for each  policy, it doesnt appear  The Co-op told them the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policies. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S would have 
been told the cost before  each policy started and they paid for the policies for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
likely they would have  raised that with The Co-op at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to each policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  The Co-op  made  clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs S would get 
back in return in the event Mr S made  a successful  claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ss expectations about what  the policies would pay in the event of a claim  (an amount 
sufficient to meet their monthly payments in respect of each further advance ) were  
significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions which necessitated 
medical or surgical treatment of consultation  within the 12 months preceding the start 
date of the policies; 
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales, might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr S was eligible for their benefits and they 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr S wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr S didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
S might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
Ref: DRN99021147make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policies, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take them out.
The Co-op may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any claim Mr S made would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but they had limited other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ss statutory sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policies. The policies  were  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr S was made redundant,  or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
S would have taken  out the policies  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN99021148Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policies 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude The Co-op should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think The Co-op misrepresented  the terms of the policies 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of The Co-ops  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why The 
Co-op failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information The Co-op gave Mr and Mrs S, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 and 2000 when providing information  about  an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find The Co-op negligently  misrepresented the contracts  to Mr and Mrs S and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that The Co-op had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9902114