K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs K says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs K took out on a store  card account  in December 
1999. It was added to her account  when she applied  for the card whilst shopping in the 
store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
and has asked for a review. So this complaint comes  to me to make  a final decision.  
Mrs K mainly  says that she was offered this store card whilst  paying for items and there was 
no advice or recommendation about PPI or that it would be attached.  She also told us that 
she had other ways to pay her store card monthly  repayments if she wasnt working.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of the store  card application from the time of sale.  Mrs K has 
signed in the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes,  I would like to protect  my 
Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium 
until further notice . So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs K to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on.  
Its reasonable to think that Mrs K wouldve read through something she was being asked to 
sign. And she signed the completed application - so it seems to me that she must have agreed 
with the information on the form at the time.  On balance, I find that Mrs K was aware the policy  
was optional and it was added to her account  when she chose to take it out.
As Mrs K made this application in a store I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL.  
This means that FICL  didnt have to check if the policy  was suitable for her. But it still needed  
to make sure it gave  Mrs K enough  clear  information to decide if the policy was right for her, 
taking into account  her personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs K wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy if 
better information had been provided.  
Ref: DRN98932272In the event of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment  the policy couldve 
paid out a benefit for as long as Mrs K was off work   clearing her card balance in full if she 
wasnt able to return to work. It wouldve paid out in full for longer  than Mrs K couldve 
depended on getting full sick pay. And it wouldve paid out on top of her work  benefits. This 
couldve been useful,  especially if Mrs K mightve had extra  costs  as a result  of being sick or 
disabled, and bearing in mind that she wouldve only been on half pay after 6 months  off 
work sick.  
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs K if she was off work  sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
I cant be sure that Mrs K wouldve been able to sell her car for enough money to pay her 
store card. And having PPI avoided the risk of having to do this as the policy provided a 
dependable alternative means  of covering her store card monthly repayments. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs K also mentioned having joint savings with a partner. But 
I dont know how much she had saved or if she wouldve always been able to rely on having 
sufficient money saved to pay her store card if she wasnt able to work. And relying  on other 
people to help out in the event of money  problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs K couldve  benefitted  from having PPI if shed needed to claim.
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs K clear enough information  about the costs of the 
policy. But she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to and she indicated on the 
application form that she was happy  to pay for it at the time. Ive seen nothing  to suggest the 
policy wasnt affordable  for her. Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered Mrs K, 
I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. 
On balance, I think she still wouldve taken  out the policy.  So I dont find that Mrs K has lost 
out as a result of anything that FICL did wrong   and theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9893227