K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the sale of his home  insurance policy  by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax). 
background
Mr C made  a claim under his home  insurance policy because his gable  wall collapsed. The 
claim was rejected as his policy  only covers losses that are caused by certain  insured  events  
 for example, fire or flood. The damage  to his gable  wall wasnt  caused  by one of the 
events covered under the policy.  The insurer put it down to wall tie failure, which  is caused 
gradually over time  ie. the damage  wasnt sudden and didnt result from an insured event.
Mr C complained as he expected  the unforeseen collapse  of his gable  wall to be covered, so 
he says the policy must  have been  mis-sold to him. He thinks  the documents were  badly  
worded, didnt highlight the limited cover provided, and as a result he felt he got misleading 
information about the policy. Halifax disagreed.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt  think the policy  had 
been mis-sold.  
Mr C didnt agree so the matters been  passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I understand Mr C has complained separately about the insurers decision  to decline his 
claim. Although Ive referred to the claim in the background above, Im not considering  the 
complaint about  it. My decision only concerns  the sale of the policy by Halifax.
Mr Cs buildings insurance  policy provides a core cover for loss or damage caused by 
certain insured  events,  such as storm damage, fire or escape  of water. This policy  also 
offered optional extras at an additional  cost, which included accidental damage  cover.  Mr C 
chose not to take any extra cover.
Halifax is subject to certain legal and regulatory  requirements, which  include the need to 
provide its customers with information that is clear, fair and not misleading. So Ive 
considered what  Mr C wouldve seen  when he took out his policy.
Mr C took out his policy online in November 2015.  Halifax has provided me with screenshots 
from the time that it says he wouldve seen. Having looked through these screenshots, I can 
see set out under heading, What is this type of insurance?  are listed  all the insured events 
covered under the policy. Beneath this are two summary boxes. The first summarises  What 
is insured?  The second summarises What is not insured? and included: wear and tear, 
maintenance, or loss or damage that happens  over a period of time.
I can also see Halifax gave links to important documents with information about  the policy.  
Mr C needed to confirm  he had read them  before proceeding to take out the insurance.  The 
documents were  also posted to him after completing the sale online. Ive looked at the policy 
Ref: DRN94980272summary which sets out the key facts. It sets out uninsurable causes, which include 
something that happens gradually over a period  of time, for example  corrosion,  damp, 
condensation, decay or decomposition.
To decide his policy was mis-sold I would to have to see that Mr C was actively  told 
something incorrect about his cover, or that something important wasnt available  to him to 
read. Im not convinced  either of these applies to this case. 
I think Halifax did provide  him with clear, fair and not misleading  information allowing Mr C to 
make an informed choice  when deciding whether or not to take this insurance  policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I make no award  against Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9498027