K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained that Bastion  Insurance Co. Ltd failed to provide the service  she 
expected when she called for assistance  under her Breakdown Cover  policy.
background
Miss D called Bastion  for assistance as her car wouldnt start. It was parked in her garage.  
Bastion arranged for a patrol agent to attend.  Miss D said the agent was able to get in her 
car and open  the bonnet.  But in order to charge the battery, he needed to move the car out 
of the garage. 
Bastion said the patrol agent  told it he couldnt  access Miss Ds car and to move  it he would 
have required equipment. Miss D said the agent simply didnt know  how to put her automatic 
car from park mode into manual mode  in order to then push her car out of the garage to 
jump start the battery.  As it was dark,  Miss D said the agent  told her hed come  back the 
next day when  it was light.
Miss D said a local recovery agent came out and within  15 minutes had easily  put her car 
into manual mode,  pushed her car out of the garage and charged the battery. Miss D said 
she paid the recovery  agent £80. She wants Bastion to reimburse her for this cost. 
Bastion said it had correctly rejected her claim  for assistance as her car wasnt  accessible 
and required  winching or specialised  equipment to move it.
Miss D asked us to look at her complaint. Our adjudicator thought  Bastion had acted in line 
with the policy terms. 
Miss D didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Ive looked at the exclusions Bastion applied under the policy.  It says it wont provide  
assistance where the vehicle isnt accessible or cannot be transported safely and legally 
using a standard transporter. The policy doesnt cover any winching charges or the use of 
specialist equipment.
I appreciate that Miss D was able to have  her cars flat battery  charged by another  agent.  
From what  shes  told us, that agent  didnt seem to require specialised  equipment  in order  to 
release the car from its parking mode  - and moved Miss Ds car by pushing it out of the 
garage. 
Ive considered whether Bastions actions were reasonable and in line with their policy. I 
think they were. I cant comment on the methods used by the agent Miss D called. I think 
Bastion fairly applied  its exclusions  in this case. 
Ref: DRN94193532my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9419353