K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz  Finance, wasnt  
of satisfactory quality. His partner is also involved in his complaint.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr C under  a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that he signed in November 2018. He says that within  a couple  of weeks  he 
encountered problems  with the windows and sunroof opening when the car was locked  
and then problems  with the tailgate locking. The car was returned to the dealer  for ten days 
in February 2019  and Mr C says that a new motor  was fitted  to remedy  the tailgate problem 
but diagnostics  showed no faults  with the sunroof and windows. But the issues  continued 
and the car was returned to the dealer again three days later and Mr C says that it was with 
the dealer for about four months. 
Mr Cs partner complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance but it said that no fault had been 
found with the car and a data logger  had been ordered for the car and it would provide an 
understanding of why the issues were being experienced. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was persuaded 
that there  was a fault with the car and it wasnt of satisfactory quality when  supplied  to Mr C. 
She recommended that Mercedes-Benz Finance should: end the agreement  and collect the 
car; refund Mr Cs deposit of £6,461.74 with interest;  refund two months payments because 
the car was with the dealer for almost four months  and the courtesy car wasnt  a like-for-like 
so he lost enjoyment of the new car; and pay him £200 for the continued distress and 
inconvenience that he experienced.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that the data logger has confirmed that the issues  are caused by incorrect  
operation of the key fob by the customer which is activating the comfort function. It says 
that theres no fault with the car and allowing Mr C to reject it in the absence  of any evidence 
confirming a fault sets a dangerous  precedent.
Mr Cs partner says that theyre  continuing to have issues with the cars sunroof and 
windows.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr C was a new car and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor  
defects. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN94431112Mr C says that he first had problems with the windows and sunroof opening when the car 
was locked within a few weeks of the car being  supplied to him. He returned the car to the 
dealer for ten days in February  2019 because of that problem and because  of problems with 
the tailgate locking. A new motor was fitted to remedy the tailgate problem but diagnostics 
showed no faults with the sunroof  and windows. 
He says that the issues recurred three days later so the car was returned to the dealer. He 
was provided with a courtesy car but his car was with the dealer for about  four months. 
Mr Cs partner complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance but it said that no fault had been 
found with the car and a data logger  had been ordered for the car and it would provide an 
understanding of why the issues were being experienced. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the data logger  has confirmed that the issues are caused 
by incorrect operation of the key fob by Mr C which is activating the comfort function and 
that theres no fault with the car. But Mr Cs partner says that theyre continuing to have the 
same issues  with the car, that theyre  using the key fob correctly  and that Mr C went  back to 
the dealer again about them.
The car was with the dealer for ten days in February 2019 and then for nearly four months 
between February and June 2019. If there  was no fault with the car and the error  was being 
caused as a result of the comfort function being activated I consider that it would be 
reasonable to expect  that to have  been  quickly identified and appropriate instruction on the 
correct use of the key fob would have been given to Mr C. But that hasnt happened and the 
issue has continued.
Im not persuaded that the issue is caused by incorrect operation  of the key fob. Mr Cs 
partner has described  the on-going issues that theyve experienced and I consider it to be 
more likely than not that theres  an intermittent fault with the car which is causing these 
problems. I dont consider  that its reasonable to expect a new car to have issues  such  as 
these so I consider  it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality  
when it was supplied  to Mr C.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr C to be allowed to 
reject the car. So I consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase  
agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr C. The agreement shows that 
Mr C made  an advance  payment of £6,461.74  for the car - and the invoice shows  that a 
deposit of £4,659.64 was received  from Mr C and a further £1,802.10 was due from him. 
Mr Cs partner has checked  with the dealer and says that Mr C paid a deposit  of £4,659.64 
and the £1,802.10 was a "finance offer". I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mr C the advance payment of £4,659.64  that he paid 
for the car, with interest.
Mr C was provided with a courtesy  car when his car was with the dealer but I agree with the 
investigator that it would  be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund  two 
monthly payments  under the agreement to him because the courtesy  car wasnt  a like-for-
like so he lost enjoyment of the new car that he was paying for. These events have clearly 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr C and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay him £200 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
Ref: DRN94431113For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from 
Mr C  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr C the advance payment of £4,659.64 that he made for the car. 
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4.Refund to Mr C two of the monthly  payments that hes made  under  the 
agreement.
5.Pay £200 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct  tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9443111