K822xcomplaint
Ms N complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  gave authorisation for a
claim against her worldwide, annual, multi-trip, travel insurance  policy  but refused to pay
after it received  the bill, as it was more than it expected. Reference to LV includes its agents.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
10 January 2020,  an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that LV hadnt treated Ms N fairly and 
what it should do to put matters right.   
responses to my provisional  decision
LV accepted my provisional decision.  Ms N said:
Shes happy that LV has now paid the hospital  but as the hospital  threatened to 
pursue her personally, she needs  an assurance that this is the end of the matter and 
that it will not pursue  her for recovery of the money.
It was never about the compensation and whilst she accepts the compensation Ive 
set, it doesnt compensate her for the additional stress LV caused both whilst she 
was ill and afterwards.  
At the time she was taken ill, she was in extreme pain and had been given strong 
painkiller, so that wasnt conducive to clear  thinking. 
She agrees with my sentiments in relation to a forced apology.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  LV says that it has paid three invoices dated March  
and April 2019, amounting to £15,730.81 relating to Ms Ns treatment on 
10 January 2019.  It says that it checked with the hospital and the only outstanding balance 
the hospital has relates to 22 April 2019,  which isnt payable by LV under this claim.
If Ms N wants to ensure  that everything  has been  paid, its open  to her to check  directly 
with the hospital. LV cant give Ms N an assurance  that the hospital wont  pursue Miss N 
further. Thats because  Miss N is responsible for the costs  she incurs in having  private  
treatment. If her treatment is eligible treatment,  LV pays the costs that are covered under 
her policy.  Any costs  that are not covered under Ms Ns policy  are her responsibilit y. 
Ref: DRN95751772I note Ms Ns comments in relation to compensation. I remain of the view that 
compensation of £250 in relation to Ms Ns distress and inconvenience  is fair here. I 
appreciate that Ms N thinks  otherwise. 
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that LV treated Ms N 
fairly. To put things right, it should pay Ms N compensation of £250.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ns complaint. I now require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to pay Ms N compensation of £250 in relation
to her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95751773extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms N complains that Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company  Limited gave authorisation for a
claim against her worldwide,  annual,  multi-trip, travel insurance policy but refused to pay
after it received the bill, as it was more  than it expected. Reference to LV includes its agents.
background
In summary, Ms N was on holiday in the USA for several  weeks. I understand that her
holiday started  on 8 January  2019. On 10 January 2019, a hospital  in the USA admitted
Ms N with back pain.
The hospital,  on Ms Ns behalf, phoned LV. LV gave the hospital the contact details of its
billing agent in the USA. LV also asked the hospital to send a medical  report. On
11 January 2019, the hospital faxed  the medical  report to the number LV had given. On the
same date, LV e-mailed Ms N, told her that it had been contacted by a hospital in the USA
and said it needed access to her previous medical  history. Ms N didnt give LV consent to
access her medical records.
In the absence  of Ms Ns consent, on 13 January 2019, LV went  through a questionnaire
with Ms N and on 14 January 2019, LV confirmed cover.
On 21 January 2019, LV contacted Ms N to tell her than it had received claims amounting  to 
approximately $37,000  and, as that was over its limit of £10,000, it needed  to do a GP
check. Ms N gave limited  consent for LV to contact  her GP about whether she was advised
against travel  or had been diagnosed with a specific, critical illness. That wasnt acceptable
to LV.
LV said initially that on 22 January 2019, it received a medical report  from the treating doctor in the 
USA, which said that Ms N had some similar but less severe pains in the past but didnt  seek medical 
help, as it resolved. LV said that the report contradicted the information Ms N gave in the 
questionnaire and without access to her medical records, it couldnt  validate  her claim.
In February 2019, Ms N asked the doctor who treated her to amend  the medical  report so
that the reference  to similar pains in the past was replaced by "some  pains earlier  in the
day...".
Ms N says that LV didnt tell her that there was any financial limit attached  to its
authorisation. She says that LV tried to say that this was an existing  medical condition
following its receipt  of a medical report but that was factually incorrect.  Ms N says that she
provide a corrected medical report.  She says that LV and its agents  were  duplicitous and
lied.
Ms N wants LV to settle her claim, pay her compensation for the stress it caused her and an apology  
from LVs chief  executive.
Ref: DRN95751774One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that LV had dealt with
Ms Ns claim  fairly and in line with the policy  terms. Ms N didnt agree  and there were  further 
exchanges about the period  when LV authorised  treatment and then appeared  to withdraw 
authorisation. The investigator  confirmed  that her view remained the same.
Ms N didnt agree with the investigators view. She said that the key point is that LV
authorised treatment and it didnt set a financial limit with her or the hospital. Ms N says that
its not fair that LV isnt paying the hospital because it doesnt like the size of the bill.
Ms N says that the medical report was changed  as it was the person  who took her to
hospital who spoke with the doctor  about her previously having similar pains  but that person  did so 
without the appropriate knowledge.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
Our further enquires revealed that LV has paid three invoices dated  March  and April 2019,
amounting to £15,730.81 relating to Ms Ns treatment on 10 January  2019.  LV has checked
with the hospital, which said that the only outstanding balance it has in relation to Ms N is for a 
doctors visit on 22 April 2019, relating to gastro  problems.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious  that Ive condensed  what I dont  doubt  was - and still is - a very worrying  time
into a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever  possible, aims to be informal.
But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened.
Its clear that Ms N has very strong feelings about this matter. She has provided detailed
submissions to support  the complaint, which  I have read and considered.  However, I trust
that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what  I consider to be the
central issues.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy, which say:
" If you are unexpectedly injured or taken ill during  your trip well pay up to £10 million for
reasonable fees or charges you pay or agree to pay for the following:
 Medical and surgical  expenses [...], medication, hospital [...] charges."
"We can only pay claims  if you meet the following conditions.
[...]
3. You provide all the evidence we ask for in order for us to fully assess  any claim at your
own cost."
"You accept that we have  the right to do the following  and/or that well act in the following
ways.
[...]
6. We can gather information from your medical records to help us, or our representatives,
deal with any claim..."
".. .Emergency medical and related expenses -
[...]
5. Before we re able to make a payment, guarantee a payment or provide any cover under
this section we may need to see your full medical history. [...] We need this information  to
Ref: DRN95751775confirm there are no pre-existing medical conditions that you havent told us about which
would have changed the cover we would have provided had we known about  them, or that
are related or made  you more likely to need the emergency treatment you have had to
have."
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  say that LV has a responsibility  to handle  claims
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that LV treated  Ms N fairly  in this case. I say that because:
LV acted within Ms Ns policy term and conditions  in asking for access  to her medical records. 
I appreciate that Ms N didnt want  to provide that access but the consequence of that is that 
LV isnt obliged to deal with her claim. But LV didnt refuse to deal with Ms Ns claim.
On 14 January 2019, LV authorised  Ms Ns claim  and didnt  tell Ms N that there was
a financial limit due to the fact that it hadnt had access to her medical records.
When LV authorised the claim, it had the first, unrevised medical report, which said
that Ms N said shed had similar, less severe pains in the past Ms Ns answers to
LVs medical  questionnaire contradicted that as she said shed never  suffered from
anything similar and hadnt had any medical problems in the last 24 months.  LV said
initially that it didnt receive the first, unrevised  medical  report  until 22 January 2019,
after it had authorised Ms Ns claim.  I think LV was wrong  to say that It now accepts
that it received the first, unrevised medical report  on 11 January  2019, but says it
didnt consider it and proceeded to authorise Ms Ns claim. That was to Ms Ns
advantage. 
Ms N says that she didnt say that shed had similar pains before and that the only other 
source of that information could have been from her friend who took her to the hospital. She 
provided a statement from that friend.  Ms Ns friend said he guessed answers  to the medical 
questions, as Ms N was disorientated and he told the doctor that Ms N had these pains 
previously in the day.
The statement from Ms Ns friend  refers to the wrong  date. He says that he spent  the day with 
Ms N on 10 January  2019  and by 10pm, Ms N told him the pain was unbearable so, some 
hours later, he took her to the hospital. The medical report says that the hospital admitted Ms 
N in the early hours of 10 January  2019. So, I think Ms Ns friend may have meant to refer to 
9 January 2019. In any event, neither the original nor the revised medical  report refers to the 
doctor gathering  information from anyone other than Ms N and says that Ms N didnt have an 
altered mental state, was well oriented and provided  the history of her illness. I dont think the 
statement from Ms Ns friend supports  Ms Ns assertion that her friend  provided incorrect 
information.
That being said, Ms N asked the treating doctor to revise her report, which she did.
The revised  report  omitted reference to Ms N having similar pains in the past and
says that she had some  pains earlier  in the day. The revised medical report doesnt
contradict the responses  Ms N gave to LVs medical  questionnaire. I think the
medical report LV should  rely on is the revised one. I dont think  it would be fair to
rely on an earlier report thats now been  revised.
Ref: DRN95751776When LV received the medical bills, it contacted Ms N. In its final response to Ms N,
LV said that if it had known the extent of the medical expenses, it wouldnt  have gone through 
the verbal disclaimer process with Ms N but would have maintained its
position about  access to Ms Ns medical records. LV says that it didnt  expect the
costs to exceed  £10,000.  But it didnt inform  Ms N of any financial limit when  it
authorised the claim. If it had done so, Ms N could have checked the cumulative
costs with the hospital.  Instead,  Ms N was faced with what appeared  to be LV going
back on what  it had said, because the bills were  more than it expected.  I think that
was worrying for Ms N.
LV now says that its paid three invoices dated March  and April 2019 amounting  to
£15,730.81 relating to Ms Ns treatment on 10 January  2019.  LV checked with the
hospital, which said that the only outstanding balance it has in relation to Ms N is for
a doctors visit on 22 April 2019, relating  to gastro problems. LV says thats likely to
be either during  another trip or later in the same trip as this claim  but outside the trip
limit. Ms Ns policy doesnt  cover trips longer than 90 days. So, based on what  Ive
seen, any outstanding charge isnt payable by LV under this claim.
LVs handling of Ms Ns claim caused her distress and inconvenience at an already
stressful time in that it didnt  tell her of any financial  limit to its authorisation and told
her it couldnt  validate her claim after shed incurred the costs. Ms N was left worrying about 
large outstanding bills and LV didnt tell her what it had paid on her behalf.  In all the 
circumstances, I think that fair compensation for that is £250.
I dont  intend to direct LV to apologise to Ms N, as I dont think  a forced apology has
much meaning.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Ms Ns complaint. I intend to direct
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms N compensation of £250 in relation to her 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN9575177