K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy that MBNA Limited  the provider  of her credit card - registered  a default 
on her credit  file.
background
Miss C says she experienced  financial difficulties in 2017. She says this was because she 
was self-employed  and unable to work due to a bereavement in her family. She says she 
agreed with MBNA to make a lump  sum payment of £400 in November 2017  to avoid the 
account defaulting. But she says she later found  out that the account was defaulted. Miss C 
says she didnt receive any notification about  the default.  
MBNA says it obtained income and expenditure details from Miss C on 24 November 2017 
which showed that she couldnt  afford to make  any payments. So it says it stopped all 
interest and fees on the account - and it also later refunded all interest since  May 2017. But 
it couldnt put the account on a formal repayment  arrangement, so the account would be 
regarded as in default when it was seven months  in arrears - this wouldve been at the end 
of November 2017. 
MBNA says Miss C enquired about how she could  avoid her account  defaulting  and offered 
to pay £500. MBNA says it only received  £400  but this still wouldnt be enough to stop the 
account going into default although it delayed the account from defaulting by one month.  
MBNA says it sent Miss C notices of sums in arrears  (NOSIAs) and notices of default  
(NODs) before the account  was defaulted. As no further payments were  received it says it 
applied a default to the account at the end of January 2018 and sold the debt to a third party. 
Miss C wasnt  happy with its response so she brought  her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and they didnt uphold  the complaint.  They  thought 
MBNA had acted fairly and reasonably when registering  a default on her credit file. Miss C 
didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so the case has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Cs complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Miss C but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Miss C wouldve agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied that MBNA is entitled  to default an account 
and sell a debt if it wishes and in certain circumstances, such as where  arrears  have  built up.
Ref: DRN91560842Miss C spoke to MBNA in November 2017. MBNA has sent me its system  notes  of the 
conversation and a copy  of the call recording. Ive listened to the recording of the 
conversation between Miss C and an MBNA  adviser. Im satisfied the adviser  made it clear 
to Miss C that as she had a negative disposable  income it wont be asking her to make any 
payments to the account as it couldnt place her on a formal  repayment arrangement, and 
that it will freeze any interest or fees.  It also made it clear that the account  is currently  seven 
payments in arrears  so the account is likely  to default at the end of the month. It explained  
that, if this happened, a default would be applied to her credit file and would remain there  for 
six years   and that it may sell the debt. 
In this conversation, Miss C asked whether she could  pay £500 to MBNA before the end of 
November 2017  to prevent the account  from defaulting. The adviser explained  that a 
payment of £500  would  bring  the account  to five payments in arrears.  But that wouldnt be 
sufficient to stop the account defaulting but would delay the account from defaulting for a 
couple of months.  I think the adviser  made all of this clear on the call.
In addition to the above,  MBNA sent a letter to Miss C in November  2017  which  said:  
The repayment  amount  which  you can afford to pay will not be sufficient to prevent us 
registering a default  with the credit  reference  agencies, even if you continue  to maintain 
payments at this level.
MBNA says that Miss C made  a payment of £400 on 28 November 2017, but no further 
payments after this date.  It says the account went into default at the end of January 2018. At 
this point it meant that Miss Cs account wouldve been in arrears  of seven payments, so I 
dont think MBNA acted unfairly or unreasonably  by applying a default to the account. 
Miss C says she wasnt notified about  the default  to the account. MBNAs systems show it 
sent Miss C NOSIAs in June 2017,  August 2017 and October  2017.  It also shows  that it sent 
NODs in October 2017 and December 2017.  So I think its more  likely than not that the 
NOSIAs and NODs were sent.  Besides that, as Ive said above,  Miss C discussed  the 
default with MBNA before  it happened. Im satisfied that she was on notice that the account 
would default  if she didnt make payments.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. I note that MBNA refunded all interest applied  to the account since May 
2017 and Im also satisfied that MBNA  did explain that the account  would  default.  So I think 
MBNA did act in a positive and sympathetic manner. Overall whilst I recognise the very 
difficult position Miss C was in  I cant fairly  order MBNA to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91560843my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156084