K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC recorded  a marker against his name  with a fraud 
prevention agency.  
background 
In February 2016,  Mr D reported suspected  fraud on his account  to Lloyds. The details of its 
investigation arent clear, but it resulted in information regarding  Mr D being  recorded with 
two fraud  prevention agencies  CIFAS and National  Hunter.
In June 2016, Lloyds agreed  it shouldnt have recorded this information. It said it would 
amend the records  and pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr D applied for a savings account with a different business but was 
turned down on the basis that information  about him was recorded in these fraud prevention  
registers.
It wasnt until March 2017 that Mr D discovered that, although he didnt have any markers 
recorded against his name with CIFAS, he did with the other fraud prevention  agency  -
National Hunter. He complained to Lloyds again.  It wrote  to him in June 2017  promising to 
correct the records  and offered him additional  compensation.  Despite  his efforts  to have 
these records corrected,  Lloyds still hadnt  done  so by early  2018 so Mr D wrote directly  to 
National Hunter who finally removed  the marker  against his name. Shortly afterwards, Lloyds 
contacted Mr D to offer him additional compensation. 
Mr D was unhappy with how Lloyds had handled  things and so he referred a complaint to us. 
The investigator agreed that Lloyds had handled  things badly and that this had caused 
significant distress and inconvenience to Mr D. However, he said that Lloyds had paid a total 
of £1,470 in compensation since June 2016. He considered that this total represented a fair 
amount of compensation for what had gone  wrong.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that this amount of compensation 
didnt factor in the psychological  impact, reputational damage and the inconvenience of not 
being able to access the full range of financial products otherwise available to the general  
public. He also didnt  think it took into account  the amount of time spent researching and 
pursuing the complaint. He also said that the stress of the situation caused  him to be signed 
off work with a diagnosis  of depression. 
Because Mr D disagreed  with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Its accepted by both sides  that Lloyds shouldve handled things much better than it did. 
From what  Mr D has told me, he didnt experience any direct financial loss as a result but he 
has suffered significant  distress and inconvenience.  The only issue  I need to consider here 
is what would be an appropriate amount  of compensation given the impact  Lloyds actions  
had on Mr D. 
Ref: DRN94366882Its important to note that I can only award  compensation for the impact  on Mr D directly  
not on his representatives. And its also not my role to make an award  thats designed to 
punish Lloyds  for its actions.
Theres no doubt that the impact this had on Mr D was significant. I understand he was able 
to still make use of a basic bank account  and remained  in employment throughout this 
period  something which means the impact was less severe  than it could have been. But he 
will still have  likely  been excluded from taking out many mainstream financial products 
because other businesses will have  been  reluctant to allow  someone  with a fraud marker 
against their name set up new accounts.
Its fully understandable  that Mr D wouldve felt embarrassed or even stigmatised but this 
information will only have been  seen by a very small number  of people. In view of that, I 
dont think I can reasonably find that the fraud marker had a material impact on his 
reputation in the way hes claimed.  
Hes said that this situation led to him being  diagnosed with depression and that he stopped  
working in October  2017 for an extended  period of time. The investigator asked for more 
information regarding  this but Mr Ds representative said it wouldnt be in his best interests  to 
ask him to approach his doctor for supporting medical evidence.  Nonetheless, he thinks  
Lloyds should  compensate him for this. But the causes of a condition  such as depression  are 
complex. I dont mean to dismiss  or diminish  what Mr D has been through but I think  it would 
be far too speculative, with such limited information  available, for me to conclude  that he 
wouldve avoided these  psychological difficulties if Lloyds had removed the fraud markers 
promptly. 
This is not an exact science. All I can do is look at the range of ways  in which the business 
actions impacted upon the consumer. Having done so, Im satisfied that any award Id make  
for distress and inconvenience  would not be higher than the £1,470  Lloyds has already paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9436688