K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) have duplicated a default  on her credit file.
background
Mrs R had a credit card with Lloyds, and she got into financial  difficulties. In 2017 she went  
onto a debt management plan arranged  through a debt charity. Lloyds issued her with a 
default notice  in September 2017 and defaulted her account on 2 November 2017.  They  sold 
her account  to a third-party debt collection agency (the agency) on 28 November 2017. Both 
Lloyds and the agency have reported the default to the credit reference  agencies.
Mrs R has complained that she has two defaults on the same  debt, and that this is causing 
her problems in getting a mortgage. She wants Lloyds  to remove their default, so that only 
one default is showing. She also thinks that Lloyds should have registered the default in July 
2017, when she broke her contractual agreement with them,  and not in November 2017.
Our investigator found Lloyds had provided  a reasonable service. She felt theyd applied  the 
default correctly,  and in line with their terms and conditions. She also felt the date the default  
was registered  was correct. So she didnt think that Lloyds should  do anything  more.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigator. She says that she didnt complain about whether 
Lloyds registered  the default fairly,  but that both Lloyds  and the agency have issued defaults  
against the same debt.  She thinks the agency  should report  the default, and Lloyds should 
remove it from their records.  Shes said that other lenders have done this, so she believes  
that Lloyds should do it as well
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence,  I agree 
with the investigators  findings on this complaint, for broadly the same reasons. I can 
understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment to Mrs R but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit file Mrs R supplied. This shows  that her payments to Lloyds 
were kept up to date until June 2017.  It then shows that payments were not made  in July, 
August or September 2017, and that the account  was defaulted in November 2017. The 
default balance  shows as £3,381. It also shows the account was opened  on 19 September  
2011 and closed in November 2017.
The entry for the agency doesnt show any payment history, but is does show the account 
defaulted on 2 November 2017, with a default balance of £3,381.  It also shows and account 
start date of 19 September 2011  and the name of the agency followed by (LBG)  Lloyds 
Banking Group.
I appreciate Mrs R believes  shes had two defaults  on the same debt, but I dont agree this is 
the case. Looking at the two entries, they have  the same start date, the same default date, 
the same  default  amount, and the name of the agency is linked to that of Lloyds. So together  
they show the account was defaulted  with Lloyds  and then transferred  (sold) to the agency, 
who continued to report the same  details. 
Ref: DRN94228212Lloyds have a requirement to accurately  report account conduct to the credit reference  
agencies, and from what Ive seen this is what theyve done. So I dont think  that they should  
remove the default.
I wouldnt expect Lloyds  to default  an account when a single payment has been missed.  This 
would be unfair  as it could adversely affect customers  who,  for example, have a temporary  
issue when trying to make  a payment. Id expect them to wait until at least  three  payments  
had been missed. And then Id expect them to give notice  of any potential  default, providing 
the customer the opportunity to clear any arrears  before a default was registered. Its not 
disputed that Lloyds followed this process before registering their default. So I dont think 
they should alter the date of the default  to when Mrs R missed  the first payment  July 2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9422821