K822xcomplaint
Miss Y complains  that Gain Credit LLC, (trading as Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background 
The circumstances leading to Miss Ys complaint,  together with my initial  findings,  were set 
out in my provisional  decision of 5 November 2019, an extract  of which  is attached.
Following receipt of my provisional decision,  Lending Stream agreed to my provisional 
proposals set out in it for putting things right.
However Miss Y disagreed with my provisional decision. She pointed out that other  
ombudsmen had found in her favour in respect of other loans with other lenders. And she 
provided a table showing her other loans that were active at the times she took out the 
various Lending Stream loans.
Miss Y agreed that the break between loans  7 and 8 meant that she could be considered  a 
new customer. But she went on to say that the fact that she then took out loans 9 to 12 
within a short space  of time, and that loans 6 and 7 were deemed unaffordable,  should 
surely have resulted  in Lending Stream seeing  that she had started to fall back  into old 
habits.
Miss Y went on to point  out that no-one had contacted  her to ask about her outgoings, other 
loans and her reliance on payday loans  during the periods when  the loans, which I 
provisionally found were  not mis-sold, were sold. And she then set out details of her other 
outgoings and the other  loans she took out, including borrowings from friends, at these  
times. Substantially all of this information was supplied to us, and therefore  considered  by 
me, before I issued  my provisional decision.  Miss Y also queried how Lending Stream  was 
able to tell her, before approving these loans, that, after looking at her credit file she had 
good credit  scores.  She asked this because when she checked her scores herself she found 
that they were  substantially lower than those Lending Stream  had.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will at the start point out that my role is to look at the facts and surrounding circumstances  
of this particular  complaint.  I havent looked at the equivalent information relating to any 
other complaints Miss Y has brought  to this service, so I cant comment on why one or more  
of my colleagues may have reached  different decisions in these cases.  Nor, as Ive just 
explained, do I need to. 
Miss Y has been free to, and has in fact provided us with details of her financial and other 
circumstances and information relating to her complaint throughout our adjudication and 
decision process. And, in particular, my provisional decision made it clear that I was giving 
her and Lending Stream, the opportunity to comment or supply further information before I 
issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN95036842Loans 1  3
Miss Y has provided information about  her actual financial circumstances  which she says 
indicates that, at the time these loans were sold, they were unaffordable. But, as Ive 
explained in my provisional decision,  because of their size and as they were taken out at the 
beginning of her borrowing  relationship  with it, I find that the checks that Lending Stream  
undertook at that time were proportionate.  And Im satisfied that it was entitled to rely on the 
figures Miss Y gave it then for her expenditure. These figures  were  substantially lower than 
the figures she has since given to us. And dont  lead me to find that, based on the figures it 
had, Lending Stream should reasonably have concluded that Miss Y couldnt have 
sustainably repaid these loans.
Loans 4 and 5
Miss Y has again provided information  about  her actual financial circumstances which  she 
says indicates  that, at the time these loans were sold, they were unaffordable.  These  figures 
again show expenditure higher than that Miss Y gave Lending Stream at the time. But, as 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision, I think that Lending Stream ought  to have enquired 
further into Miss Ys financial  circumstances  before  agreeing to these loans. However, had it 
carried out what I consider to have been  proportionate checks,  in other  words,  had Lending  
Stream found out more about what other  short term loans she might  be taking out, I dont 
conclude that these would have shown  that these loans shouldnt  have been made.
The time gap between Loan  7 and Loan 8
In the circumstances of this compliant  Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have concluded that during this period  of 16 months or so Miss Ys circumstances had 
changed and that she had got control of her finances. Im also satisfied  that, when she 
started taking out several loans in close succession after this gap, it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream not to look back at Miss Ys lending history before the gap. But to consider 
that her finances were  on a new footing  and that the reasons she took the new loans were 
based on her new circumstances and not referable  to whatever her circumstances had been 
up to the settlement of loan 7.
Loans 8  12
My comments on what Miss Y has said about  these follow what Ive said above  about loans 
1 - 5
Credit Scores
I cant comment on why Lending  Stream told Miss Y that her credit scores were  good. Ive 
not seen everything  that it saw before making  the loans. Nor do I know what it considers 
indicates a good score. None of this affects  the conclusions  Ive set out above.
For the reasons  Ive given above  nothing Miss Y has sent me since I issued my provisional  
decision leads me to conclude that I need to vary it.
I realise that this will be a disappointment  for Miss Y as her circumstances may have  been  
difficult. But, as Ive explained above, Lending Stream may not have known about her 
difficulties when making its decisions about all her loans, even if it had carried out 
proportionate checks.
Ref: DRN95036843putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss Y paid on loans six, seven and thirteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loans  six, seven and thirteen  means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about these loans should be removed 
from Miss Ys credit file.
It looks like Lending Stream wrote off some capital outstanding from Miss Ys final 
loan. It can deduct this from the total refund owing to her.
It looks like Miss Y made an additional  payment on loan 12 which  Lending Stream  
has offered to refund.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I partially uphold Miss Ys complaint 
insofar as I have decided  that loans six, seven and thirteen were mis-sold. And I order Gain 
Credit Limited to pay Miss Y compensation and amend her credit  files as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.  
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95036844.
Extract of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Miss Y says Gain Credit LLC, (trading  as Lending  Stream), irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about  13 instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss Y between the end of 
2012 and early 2016.  Each  of the loans was set up to be repaid over six months 
Miss Ys borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date 
Loan
agreedDate loan
repaidNo. of days 
after paying 
off previous 
loansLoans running  at 
start of this loan
Inc this loanLoan
Amount
(£)Approx.
Interest
1 26.12.12 25.01.13
- 1 555 166
2 24.02.13 14.05.13
30 2 515 432
3 25.05.13 30.07.13
10 3 215 129
4 30.06.13 31.07.13.
- 3,4 315   95
5 25.11.13 24.12.13
116 5   80   27
6 24.12.13 30.04.14
- 6 420 485
7 20.03.14 28.04.14
- 6,7   80   54
8 08.09.15 24.11.15
1 year + 8 300 175
9 11.09.15 02.12.15
- 8,9 250 151
10 13.09.15 29.10.15
- 8,9,10 450 169
11 02.01.16 05.05.17
31 11 500   47
12 20.01.16 06.05.16
- 11,12 300   22
13 06.02.16 w/o - 11,12,13 300    -
Our adjudicator partly  upheld Miss Ys complaint and thought the loans  from loan 8 onwards shouldnt 
have been given. She said this was because Miss Ys overall pattern of lending suggested that she 
had become persistently  reliant on short term lending at that stage. 
Lending Stream agreed to repay all the interest and charges paid by Miss Y in respect of loans eight  
to thirteen. And to remove all entries  relating  to these  loans from Miss Ys credit files.
Miss Y disagreed  that loans  one to seven were responsibly lent. And amongst other matters she set 
out details of other expenses she had at the time she took out these loans. 
Our adjudicator explained that, in her view, proportionate checks had been carried out in respect of 
loans one to four. Miss Y had paid them all off early without  any issues. And there was nothing  in the 
Ref: DRN95036845information Miss Y had given Lending  Stream,  or of which  it ought to have been aware,  that meant it 
ought to have  started  to verify the information Miss Y had given. 
Our adjudicator then explained that there had been a break in lending between  loans four and five 
which she felt she had to take into account. She then said that: a gap in lending usually  doesnt 
suggest a dependency on short-term lending. So she didnt think that Lending Stream should have 
been concerned when Miss Y returned for the fifth loan.  Amongst other matters she noted  that it was 
for a much  smaller amount  and the income and expenditure figures  Miss Y had given Lending  Stream 
showed that this and the next two loans  were  affordable.  Again, she couldnt  see anything in the 
information Miss Y provided, or of which  Lending  Stream should have been aware, which  meant it 
would have been proportionate to start verifying what  Miss Y was saying. And, as with the earlier 
ones, loans five to seven were paid off early without any issues over the repayments. Our adjudicator 
also felt that the monthly loan repayments, the amounts they were for or the period of time for which  
Miss Y was borrowing meant her loan history,  on its own, should  have shown  Lending Stream  she 
might have been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
As Miss Y still didnt agree with the adjudicators  view the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss Y could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending  Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Lending Stream  was required to establish  
whether Miss Y could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence  calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
Ref: DRN95036846repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ys complaint.
Loans 1 - 7
Loans 1 -3 were taken out at the beginning of Miss Ys borrowing relationship with Lending Stream.  
And, given the loan amounts and that it was early on in the lending relationship, I think  that the checks 
Lending Stream undertook for these were proportionate. However, Miss Ys took out a fourth  loan 
while the third loan was still running and it was for a larger  amount. I think that at that stage  Lending 
Stream ought  to have enquired further into Miss Ys financial  circumstances. Had it done  so it would 
have seen that, in addition to loan 3 it would have seen that Miss Y was also was paying off another  
short term loan to another lender and had exceeded her agreed overdraft  on her current  account  
some three  weeks  earlier.  Although these  would  have indicated that Miss Y might have beginning to 
be under some pressure with her finances  I dont think that on their own these circumstances were 
sufficient for Lending Stream to conclude  that it shouldnt  have made the fourth  loan. . 
There was then a break of almost four months between Miss Y paying off her fourth loan with Lending 
Stream and taking out the fifth. Id agree  that in the circumstances  of this case a gap in lending of that 
length doesnt  suggest  a dependency on short term lending., Looking at the pattern of Miss Ys 
borrowing in this particular  complaint, where she had had four loans  over a period of just under a 
year, I dont think this was long enough  for Lending Stream  to have concluded that Miss Y had got 
control of her finances and to treat this fifth loan as part of a new chain  of lending. But, as with loan 4, 
I do think that Lending Stream ought to have enquired further into Miss Ys financial  circumstances. 
Had it done so, it would have seen that she had taken out a short  term loan and paid towards  a 
further one, both with different lenders in the four weeks before. But the fifth loan was for a small 
amount and again, in the circumstances of this complaint,  I dont think  this information  would  have 
been sufficient for Lending Stream to have concluded that it shouldnt make  that fifth loan. 
However, by the sixth loan, which was a large  one and taken out on the same day as Miss Y paid off 
the fifth loan,  the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Miss Y was such that I think 
Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise 
harmful. And so Lending Stream should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
I think  that Miss Y lost out because  Lending Stream  continued  to provide borrowing on respect of loan 
six and seven  because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ys indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Miss Y borrowed  were  likely to have 
had negative implications  on Miss Ys ability  to access  mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So I provisionally intend to uphold Miss Ys complaint about loans six and seven.
Loans 8 - 13
There was a gap of over 16 months between Miss Y taking loans seven  and eight.  By reference to her 
pattern of lending prior to this, I think in Miss Ys particular circumstances that it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream at that stage to have concluded that she had by then gained control of her finances. 
This means  that it could  essentially treat her as a new customer. As such I find that the checks 
Lending Stream undertook for loans eight and nine were  proportionate. 
Ref: DRN95036847In the particular circumstances  of this complaint I think that Lending Stream  ought  to have asked  Miss 
Y what other short term loans she had when  she took out loans ten and eleven, and carried out a 
thorough review of her finances when deciding whether  to give her the twelfth loan. Had it done so I 
dont think it would have  discovered anything which  I feel ought to have  made  it conclude not to give 
Miss Y the loans. However, by the time of the application for the thirteenth loan, Miss Y already had 
five loans  in a period of five months, two of which were still running. I find that at that point Lending 
Stream ought  to have realised that Miss Y was unlikely to have been  borrowing to cover a temporary  
shortfall in her finances  but to meet  an ongoing need. And that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful.  And so Lending Stream should  have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans 
I think  that Miss Y lost out because  Lending Stream  provided loan thirteen because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Ys indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number of loans and the length  of time over which Miss Y borrowed  were  likely to have 
had negative implications  on Miss Ys ability  to access  mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im provisionally intending also to uphold  loan thirteen.
putting things  right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss Y paid on loans six, seven and thirteen;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loans  six, seven and thirteen means any information recorded 
about them is adverse.  So all entries about these loans should be removed from Miss Ys 
credit file.
It looks like Lending Stream wrote off some capital  outstanding from Miss Ys final loan. It can 
deduct this from the total refund owing  to her.
It looks like Miss Y made an additional payment on loan 12 which Lending  Stream has offered 
to refund.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Miss Y a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
For completeness  I would  add that Miss Y also noted that some of the loans recorded  by Lending 
Stream were £15 bigger  than the amount  it paid her. I can see that this was because the loan 
included a fee for transferring the funds faster than was provided by its normal process. Miss Y also 
queries whether one of the loans  in 2013 was actually paid to her. I can see that the relevant amount  
was credited to her account  at the appropriate  time. Although I do note that the name of the payer  
was different from that recorded against all the other Lending Stream Loans. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above  and subject  to any further comments or information  that I receive, as 
above, Im intending to partially  upholding  Miss Ys complaint. And, subject as before,  Im proposing 
to order  Gain Credit LLC to pay Miss Y compensation as set out above.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9503684