K820x#14complaint
Mr F is complaining about Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  because  it didnt 
pay a claim on his critical illness  insurance  policy.
background
Mr F is a member  of a group critical illness scheme provided by Legal and General and 
arranged by his employer. He joined the scheme in October 2016.
Sadly, in December 2017, Mr F had a heart attack.  I understand he also had to have  heart 
surgery in 2018.  When he claimed, Legal and General didnt pay out. It said it stopped  
providing cover for the employer at the end of 2017, before Mr F had his surgery.  It also said 
his heart  attack  wasnt covered because it happened within two years of joining the scheme 
and hed previously  had related conditions.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt the medical evidence 
showed Mr F had related  conditions before joining the scheme and that this meant  
Legal and General was entitled to decline  the claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators assessment and asked for his case  to be reviewed. In 
making his complaint, hes told us his previous medical issues  had been under  control  for 
some time and werent  a factor in his heart attack. Hes provided  to a letter from his GP 
dated 26 May 2018 to support that view.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Fs health problems and I realise  hes 
been through a very difficult time.
Mr F doesnt seem to be disputing that Legal  and General wasnt  providing cover for his 
employer his at the time of his operation in 2018.  In respect of his heart attack, 
Legal and General is relying on the following  policy exclusion:
Related Conditions  Exclusions
We will not pay benefit for any insured condition occurring within two years  of an 
insured persons cover starting under  scheme that has resulted from any related 
condition for which they:
I. have  received treatment,
II. have, or had, symptoms of,
III. have sought  advice on, or
IV. were aware of.
For the above, the insured condition  may have directly or indirectly resulted from a 
related condition.
Ref: DRN94331392The decision  as to whether something  is a related condition  will be based on the 
opinion of a medical adviser chosen by us. A list of related conditions  is shown in 
Part 5.
Part 5 of the policy  terms sets out the related  conditions for each illness  covered by the 
policy. For heart attack it says the following:
Heart attack (of specified  severity)
Any disease  or disorder of the heart, hypertension or any obstructive/occlusive 
arterial disease, diabetes  mellitus, hypercholesterolaemia.
Mr Fs cover wasnt underwritten when he joined the scheme as is often the case  with 
personal policies.  Instead, its more common for insurers offering group schemes to rely on 
this type of exclusion. The exclusion essentially says any heart attack claim in the first two 
years after joining the scheme will be declined if its felt it may have directly or indirectly 
resulted from a related condition he had at any time before  joining  the scheme. The policy  
terms then go on to list the conditions that are considered to be related to a heart  attack.
The medical evidence  shows that had a number of the related conditions  listed in the policy 
terms prior to joining the scheme. According  to a consultant cardiologist writing at the time of 
his heart  attack,  he had a history of ischaemic heart disease and underwent  a coronary 
angiography in 2013 and was considered for coronary artery bypass before it was decided  to 
manage the condition medically. The evidence also shows appears to show  Mr F had 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension,  hypercholesterolemia and had atrial fibrillation before joining 
the scheme. Some of these conditions are included in the list of related conditions set out in 
the policy.
I understand Mr Fs point  that his various conditions were under control when he joined the 
scheme in 2016.  I also note that his GP has said he:
. . . would not relate these  pre-existing conditions to be responsible  for his 
myocardial infarction.
But the policy doesnt say that, for the exclusion to be applied, Mr Fs existing health 
conditions had to be directly responsible for his heart attack or its primary cause. It only says 
they needed to be directly  or indirectly  related. Before  declining  the claim, Legal and General 
consulted its medical adviser, who I understand is a cardiologist and therefore an expert  in 
the relevant field.  He concluded Mr Fs previous health problems were  related to  not 
necessarily the main cause of  his heart attack  and I find that evidence  to be persuasive.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr F and isnt what he was hoping 
to hear.  But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Legal and General to conclude he had conditions that were related to his heart  attack before 
joining the scheme and then to decline the claim because the attack  happened  within  two 
years of his joining date.
Ref: DRN94331393my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9433139