K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Scottish  Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon  (Aegon) caused delays in 
transferring his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).  He says it caused him to suffer a loss 
of potential investment  returns  whilst the cash  part of his SIPP was disinvested.
background
Mr L had two SIPPs with Aegon. One of these was an uncrystallised  SIPP  and the other was 
a drawdown SIPP. Mr L was unable to use Aegons online platform to make transactions  in 
his SIPP  because it wasnt compatible with his computer.
He decided to transfer these SIPPs to a new SIPP provider and in November 2018 notified  
Aegon of this fact and provided  them with authority to release information to the acquiring  
scheme (AS).
AS wrote to Aegon in December  2018 requesting a valuation of Mr Ls holdings within his 
SIPPs, in order to begin the transfer  process. Mr L wanted an in-specie transfer of his funds. 
But some of the funds  held in his Aegon SIPP were funds that AS couldnt hold within  Mr Ls 
new SIPP. On 21 December 2018 Mr L instructed Aegon  to move those funds to cash  so 
that the transfer could go ahead.
On 3 January  2019 Aegon confirmed to Mr L that the sell down to cash had been triggered  
on the funds hed requested. And on 4 January  AS emailed Aegon  requesting the re-
registration of the remaining investments in Mr Ls SIPPs.  
Mr L made further trades in both of his Aegon SIPPs in January  and February, whilst the re-
registration of investments  was pending. 
The re-registration of the investments was completed by 18 March  2019 for his 
uncrystallised SIPP. The re-registrations  on his drawdown SIPP went through on 
8 February 2019,  18 February 2019 and a final transfer on 12 April 2019.  The transfer of 
residual cash in both SIPPs  was completed on 9 April 2019. Mr L was unhappy with the 
amount of time the transfer took and complained  to Aegon about the delays in completing  it.
Aegon responded to Mr Ls complaint. They acknowledged that they received the request to 
transfer Mr Ls SIPPs by re-registration  on 20 December  2018 and didnt process  that 
request until 9 January 2019.  They explained  that the delay was due to the volume of work  
over the festive  period but that they should  have done  better.  And apologised for the delay. 
They explained the delays in completing  the overall transfer were due to the changes  in the 
fund values caused by the purchasing  of additional investments whilst the transfer was in 
process. They explained they had an agreed  execution date with AS of 8 February 2019. But 
the additional units that werent part of the agreed  re-registration remained in the SIPPs.  
Which was found when they completed their reconciliations at the end of March  2019. This 
meant a new re-registration date had to be agreed  for the remainder of the units held. They  
said they werent responsible for the delays caused  by the changes in the units  that were 
held.
Mr L wasnt happy with this explanation and brought his complaint to us. He said that he 
ended up having  disinvested cash in his SIPPs and had lost out on potential investment 
returns on that cash because of the time it took to complete the transfer. He complained that 
he was prevented from making further transactions on the SIPP  platforms, so he couldnt 
Ref: DRN99669112mitigate those losses. He was unhappy  with the communication he had from Aegon.  He 
believed they were responsible for causing  delays in the transfer.  And said they owed him 
dividends for the extra  period his investments were with them and the return  of charges 
when his SIPPs only had the residual cash in them.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls concerns and thought it should be upheld.  He considered 
that Aegon  were responsible for delays  that meant that the transfer took longer than it should 
have. He thought Aegon  should have been proactive in seeking confirmation  that the re-
registrations had completed.  He said that the delays caused at the end in transferring  the 
residual cash caused Mr L a potential loss in investment returns.
Aegon didnt agree  with our investigators  view.  They didnt agree that chasing fund 
managers would have affected  the timescales. They  explained that their processes required 
proof of the stock  transfer. And that had to be in the form of the monthly transaction  
statements that fund managers had to provide.  They considered  that a timescale  of two 
months was reasonable. Because Aegon didnt agree with the investigators view this case 
has been referred for an ombudsmans  decision.
I issued a provisional decision to let both sides know my thoughts on this case  and give 
them the opportunity to reply.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. I agreed 
that some  of the delays had been caused  by Mr Ls decision to continue  to make trades after 
the request had been made to transfer in specie. But I didnt  agree  it was reasonable to 
delay the transfer of the residual cash for so long after the transfer  occurred. 
Mr L had no further  comment  to make following my provisional decision.  Aegon responded 
by explaining again that the transfer  of residual cash in the SIPP had to be transferred after 
other assets,  according to legislation and the HMRC Pensions Tax Manual. They explained 
that they had a procedure  that they followed for all re-registrations. And said that if they were 
to chase all re-registrations for each transfer  it would prove to be logistically  complex and 
unfeasible. Aegon said that Mr Ls transfer was not unusual in having so much disinvested  
cash to be transferred.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the following reasons, Im upholding 
Mr Ls complaint.
Transfers that are made in-specie involve the re-registration of the holding of investment 
funds or shares  between  one platform provider and another. This provides an alternative to 
selling down  funds  to cash, transferring that cash and then re-investing it within  the new 
platform. Transferring  in this way prevents the need to disinvest assets held  which would 
make no investment returns whilst held as cash.  The starting presumption when requesting 
a transfer like this would be that the consumer is satisfied with the investments that they 
already have and want  them transferred as they are.
The re-registration process  required Aegon to send a valuation  of the assets to AS, which 
AS then needed to process and accept. Aegon then had to instruct fund managers to initiate 
the process and agree  transfer dates. And Aegon are right when they say that the transfer of 
cash holdings in the SIPPs would happen  after the re-registration  of investments held. This 
is normal practice.
Ref: DRN99669113The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that this process took longer than it should have done. Which 
meant that he had a large amount of disinvested cash in his drawdown SIPP for longer than 
necessary causing  him a potential loss in investment returns. The timescale of SIPP  to SIPP 
re-registration isnt dictated  by the regulator. It varies, case to case, with two to three months  
not being unusual. Aegon  have  said that they thought a timescale  of two months was 
reasonable. But Mr L instigated this transfer in December 2018  and it wasnt  completed until 
the end of April 2019. So on the face of it, this transfer was slow.
Mr L was transferring two SIPPs and both ended up being treated slightly  differently. So Ill 
consider each in turn:
Drawdown SIPP
On 21 December 2018 Mr L contacted Aegon to instruct them to sell his investments  in six 
funds that AS couldnt accept by re-registration. Mr L sent a further email on 28 December  
three working days later  to request acknowledgement of his request of 21 December. A 
further three working  days passed before Aegon acknowledged the request on 
3 January 2019 to confirm that they had triggered the sell downs on the six funds Mr L had 
requested. Aegon acknowledged  this delay and said that their standards are such  that they 
should have triggered the sell down  by 27 December 2018.
Our investigator looked into whether  the delay in the sale of these funds affected their value. 
This showed that the overall  value of the funds increased between 27 December 2018 and 
3 January 2019. So I dont think this delay caused Mr L a financial loss.
Aegon werent instructed  to re-invest the cash prior to processing the transfer request from 
AS. The potential loss in this case comes about  from the fact that Mr L then held disinvested  
cash in his drawdown SIPP until the re-registration process completed. But the fact that Mr L 
ended up with that amount of disinvested cash wasnt Aegons fault. It wasnt  their 
responsibility to advise Mr L on alternative ways to make the transfer. They  were  given 
specific instructions and followed those. They would only be responsible for any losses 
caused by the cash  being disinvested, if they caused unreasonable delays that made  the 
process take longer than it should  have.
On 7 January  2019 Aegon received the request from AS to re-register the funds in the 
drawdown SIPP. This confirmed the request already  made  by Mr L to sell down the six funds 
in his drawdown SIPP and provided  ASs acceptance of the remaining investments for re-
registration. Aegon have explained  that they responded to this with a valuation  of the funds 
to be re-registered on 14 January 2019.  They neednt have done that at that point. But I can 
also see that the second valuation, taken at values on 11 January 2019  included different 
information than their first valuation. The cash  held had increased because of the sell down 
of funds. But Mr L had at that point also purchased  additional investments which  showed in 
that valuation.  So the second  valuation served to capture some  of the changes Mr L had 
made in the investments held in the SIPP. Although Aegon had caused  unnecessary  delay 
in asking for acceptance they already had, it wouldnt have delayed the re-registration 
because the valuation had changed anyway.
Aegon had receipt of acceptance of the second  valuation by 23 January 2019. But at this 
point the valuation was again  out of date.  AS phoned Aegon on 25 January 2019  to inform 
them Mr L had purchased more stock, so a new valuation was needed again. Emails 
between Aegon and AS indicate  that Aegon sent a stock transfer request on 4 February  
Ref: DRN996691142019. The re-registration for the equities happened  on 8 February and for the investment 
fund on 18 February. Im satisfied that the re-registrations in this SIPP  werent delayed by 
Aegons actions.
Aegon explain that they didnt have confirmation from the fund manager for the re-registered 
investment fund until the end of March 2019 though. And say their processes didnt allow 
them to transfer  the residual cash  until theyd  received that. Theyve explained  that was why 
the transfer of cash didnt  happen until 9 April 2019.  Even though there  were  further  
investments  which Mr L had purchased on 4 February 2019  that ended  up having  to be 
processed after the cash was transferred.
I think it would have  been reasonable of Aegon to check with their stock broker  and the fund 
manager for confirmation that the transfer had gone ahead as planned. They  knew roughly 
what the re-registration dates should  have been.  I think its reasonable to expect that they 
should be seeking confirmation  of the transfer within a week of the anticipated  transfer date. 
Had they done that they would have been able to receive written confirmation  in an 
acceptable format  without waiting for the monthly  fund manager  reports  which  they knew  
were reporting a month in arrears.
Im aware that Aegon have explained  that chasing  for confirmation of transfers is not the 
procedure that they follow. Which I dont  doubt. But I have to consider not just whether 
Aegon treated this transfer  in line with their normal  procedure. I have to decide  whether the 
way they treated the transfer  was fair and reasonable. And I dont think it was. Their 
procedure allowed them to ignore requests from AS to transfer the cash,  when AS were 
telling Aegon  that they had the re-registered assets. 
If Aegon had proactively sought  confirmation of the re-registrations completing, I think  they 
could then have  processed the cash transfer within a further week at the latest. So allowing 
for two weeks from the re-registration they were waiting for  which I think  could have been 
on 18 February 2019 - I think  it would  have been  possible for Aegon to have processed the 
transfer of the £54,475.86 by 4 March 2019  rather than 9 April 2019. So I think that they are 
responsible for any losses Mr L may have incurred by that cash  being  disinvested in that 
period.
Uncrystallised SIPP
Aegon received a request from AS on 20 December 2018 to re-register the investments held 
in Mr Ls SIPPs. Aegon  responded  to that request with a valuation  on 9 January 2019. This 
was eleven working days. Even  allowing for the festive period it was an unreasonable  delay, 
which Aegon have  acknowledged and apologised for in their complaint response.  
There is confusion over when AS accepted the valuation for this SIPP.  Aegon  have shown 
correspondence which indicates that they had the correct  acceptance  for this SIPP  on 
20 February 2019. But theres  also an email  from 4 February where AS state, the client is 
transferring two accounts to us, and quoted  the correct account numbers for both. AS were  
able to accept  all assets in this SIPP as re-registrations. Instead of addressing  this on 
4 February 2019  when  they could have, Aegon responded by saying  can we agree just for 
[drawdown account] at the moment and Ill come back with new dates for the clients  other 
plan. I think it should have been  clear by at least 4 February 2019  that AS were accepting 
the valuation on this SIPP too, so should have been addressed then. AS had to chase 
Aegon later only to be told on 20 February  2019  that Aegon  didnt think  they had 
acceptance. AS emailed their acceptance the same  day.
Ref: DRN99669115Aegon should have told AS on 4 February that they needed acceptance if they didnt have it. 
Had they done that its more likely  than not they would have had confirmed acceptance  to 
act upon by 4 February 2019  rather than 20 February 2019. 
Mr L made transactions within  this SIPP on 18 January 2019 and 22 January 2019  as well 
as on 4 February 2019. Each one of these transactions  would have changed the balance of 
investments held in the SIPP. Which would have rendered the accepted valuation incorrect. 
And Aegon are right when  they say that this would have interfered with the re-registration 
going through as planned.  
If Aegon had acceptance for this SIPP by 4 February 2019, they could have instructed the 
fund managers  and stockbroker by 7 February.  As it was, Aegon say they were  unaware of 
the changed asset position in the SIPP until 26 February 2019. But I think  that they should 
have been on top of the process. For the same reasons I explained regarding  the drawdown  
SIPP, I think they should have been checking  by 14 February that the re-registration they 
were processing had completed. And would have found out then that there were assets in 
the SIPP not accounted for in the accepted valuation. 
It took Aegon a day to provide new valuations for AS, so this should have been achieved  by 
15 February 2019. So I think that Aegon should have been instructing Fund Managers and 
stockbrokers to re-register any remaining funds  by 19 February 2019. 
The transfer of equities occurred on 13 March  2019  and 18 March 2019  for the final fund. 
More than two weeks  from acceptance to re-registration. Aegon havent said when the fund 
managers and stock-brokers requests were sent. And they arent responsible for the time it 
took third parties  to perform their role. But even allowing two weeks for an electronic re-
registration would mean that the final fund could have  been re-registered 5 March  2019. 
The last step of the transfer was to move the residual cash. And Aegon say they were 
waiting for the monthly returns from fund managers before transferring it. But transfer dates  
were agreed  with AS. So Aegon  knew when  the transfers were  supposed  to be happening. I 
think that they should have been  checking  within a week of that date to make  sure that they 
had processed correctly. They had a duty to Mr L to ensure their part in the transfer process  
was timely.  Following on from what I think would have been a fair timeline,  Aegon  should 
have established  by 12 March 2019 that the re-registrations  were complete. So the 
£1,570.33 residual cash in the uncrystallised SIPP should have transferred by 
15 March 2019  instead of 9 April 2019.
Ref: DRN99669116Other issues
I understand that part of Mr Ls complaint was that he was blocked from making transactions  
within his SIPP, so he was unable to re-invest his cash to mitigate his losses.  But the 
purpose of the in-specie  transfer is to move  funds as they are. So trading shouldnt have 
been necessary.  Therefore it was reasonable to block that. The block  wasnt  placed on 
trading until the valuation  was accepted,  which allowed  certain transactions to take place.  
And the block was also removed  temporarily  when request  was made to process the 
transfer, which allowed  further transactions to happen. I understand Mr Ls frustration  that he 
had disinvested cash that he couldnt  invest as he wished.  But I dont think the fact that a 
block was placed  on his trading platform was wrong.  
Ive considered whether Aegon should have  informed  Mr L not to make transactions while 
the transfer was happening in this way. But I dont  think it was their responsibility. They were 
not providing advice,  but merely  acting  on his instructions. Ive seen that Mr L says he was 
told he could continue  trading. But Aegon have no record of a phone call where  this took 
place. And Mr L told them  he was transferring because he couldnt access their platform to 
make trades. So I cant say its more likely than not, that Mr L was told that he could continue  
to make trades.
Aegon have explained  that dividends may continue to be paid into the SIPP  for up to three 
years, and what their process is to deal with that. I think this is a consequence of the transfer 
and its reasonable that Aegon periodically  transfer residual cash  when this happens.  Their  
SIPP platforms have to remain open until this ceases and any charges applied  on these 
platform are explained  within  the product terms. I think that the way they are treating this is 
fair and reasonable.
The charges  incurred on the Aegon  SIPPs  regarding  stockbroker fees have all been 
correctly and fairly applied, relating to the transactions  that Mr L undertook. The platform  
applies its annual charge monthly in arrears, and that charge is a percentage of the value 
held in the SIPP. And as I think the transfers  should have occurred earlier  than they did. I 
think that Mr L has also ended up over paying his annual  charge on each SIPP.
Putting things  right
I understand that Mr L will be disappointed to see that I dont agree with his view of the 
extent of Aegons responsibility  for delays. But I can only hold Aegon  responsible  for the 
delays I think they caused. I also have to consider whether those delays stopped things 
happening sooner. 
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position hed be in if the 
delays hadnt  occurred. 
Its not possible to say precisely what Mr L would have  invested that money  in if hed had 
access to it when he could have. I say that because itss clear Mr L actively  manages  his 
investments on a regular  basis  and was likely  to choose different funds than those he 
eventually invested  in. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr L fairly, Aegon must:
Calculate the potential  investment  return (A) on the crystallised SIPPs  residual cash 
Ref: DRN99669117from 4 March 2019 to 9 April 2019 using FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income Total 
Return Index as a benchmark.
Calculate the potential  investment  return (B) on the uncrystallised SIPPs  residual  
cash from 15 March 2019 to 9 April 2019 using  the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index as a benchmark.
Calculate the overpayment of fees in April 2019 (C) due to residual cash  being  held in 
the SIPP for longer than it should  have. 
Aegon should add the potential investment growth on the above loss (A+B+C), using 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index as a benchmark from 9 
April 2019 until the date of my final decision.  This will represent  the overall loss in 
Mr Ls SIPP value from the delays.
Aegon should add 8% per year simple interest  to the compensation from the date of 
decision to the date of settlement (if compensation is not paid within  28 days  of the 
business being notified of acceptance).
Aegon should pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest.
If Aegon is unable to pay the compensation into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid  the 
notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
I acknowledge that Aegon have already sent Mr L a hamper as an apology. I 
additionally direct  that Aegon  pay Mr L £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delays that they caused  through this transfer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. Aegon  should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Im unable  to say now what  investments Mr L wouldve made  had Aegon  transferred 
the money on the dates I think they should have.
Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Ref: DRN99669118Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of potential  investment growth  
given Mr L's circumstances and investment choices.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I direct  Scottish Equitable Plc to pay Mr L compensation in the manner I have set out under 
putting things  right above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9966911