K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains about the service she received following a claim against her
European motor  breakdown cover  provided  by RAC  Insurance Limited.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 2 May 2019, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Ms Ss complaint and what 
RAC should do to put matters right. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence  by 16 May 2019. RAC  said it couldnt disagree that too much 
emphasis was put on the tyres rather than the brakes  when it handled the claim and 
complaint, so it had nothing further  to add. Ms S hasnt  responded to my provisional findings. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Ms S nor RAC  has provided  me with anything  further  on the complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision.  So, I find 
that RAC  sought  to rely on the exclusion relating to the condition  of the tyres on Ms Ss car 
but theres nothing  to suggest that the breakdown was due to unroadworthy tyres. In any 
event, RAC  cant rely on the exclusion in relation to breakdowns that would have been 
prevented by routine services as, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr Ss car was serviced 
before her holiday.  
To put matters right, RAC should  reimburse Ms S for any costs she incurred  due to the 
breakdown that would have been  covered under the policy,  such  as repair  and taxi costs,  
subject to the policy terms and conditions. It should also pay interest and compensation of 
£400 in relation to Ms Ss distress and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN99532602my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint. I now direct RAC  Insurance
Limited to;
1.reimburse costs Ms S incurred due to the breakdown which  would have been 
covered under the policy on production of appropriate proof of payment and 
subject to the policy terms and conditions;
2.pay interest on the amount reimbursed at 8% simple*  per year,  from the date(s)  
of payment(s)  to the date of settlement and;
3.pay Ms S compensation of £400  in relation  to her distress  and 
inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  RAC  to take off tax from this interest. RAC must give
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99532603extract of provisional decision
complaint
Ms S complains about the service she received  following  a claim  against her
European motor breakdown  cover  provided by RAC Insurance Limited.
background
Ive summarised  events  in rather  less detail that theyve been presented.  No discourtesy is intended  
by that. Its a reflection of the informal  service we provide.  So, if I dont mention  something its not 
because Ive ignored it. This approach allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair 
outcome will turn.
On 3 September 2018, Ms S was driving  her car abroad on holiday when she noticed  a noise that 
gradually got worse. The first garage Ms S drove to told her that there was a problem  with the rear, 
passenger side brake and referred her to another nearby garage  for repair. Ms S drove  to the 
nearby garage  and then contacted RAC for assistance.
RAC took Ms Ss car away and arranged for a taxi to take Ms S and her partner back  to their 
campsite. The following day, a rental car company  instructed  by RAC tried to deliver  a rental  car to 
Ms S but couldnt access the campsite. RAC arranged  a taxi to take Ms S to the rental car office.
Ms S says that on 6 September 2018, RAC  told her that her claim wasnt covered  under  her policy,  
as the tyres on her car were unroadworthy. She paid for the repair  of her car herself.
In its final response to Ms S, RAC  said that her policy  doesnt cover any claim as a result of vehicle 
breakdown due to tyres that arent roadworthy.
Ms S complains that RAC  was wrong to refuse her claim.  She also complains that RAC  gave 
inaccurate information throughout. Ms S wants  compensation, an explanation  and an apology.
In response to this services request for information, RAC said that Ms Ss policy doesnt cover  a 
claim as a result of a breakdown  due to unroadworthy tyres and that the car must  be kept in good 
mechanical condition, which Ms Ss car wasnt.
Our investigator didnt think that RAC  had treated  Ms S fairly. He said that RAC  hadnt applied 
the exclusion in the policy fairly,  as the breakdown  wasnt related to the tyres.
The investigator also said that it wasnt reasonable for RAC to refuse the claim on the ground that 
Ms Ss car wasnt in good  mechanical condition. He said that Ms S wouldnt have known that 
there was an issue with the brakes: she had her car serviced before her
holiday, there  were  no advisories in the last MOT  and the initial garage said that the car was in 
moderate condition.
The investigator thought that Ms S had experienced a number of issues in relation to the service 
she received  from RAC.  He thought that RAC  should reimburse, with interest, the costs the policy 
wouldve covered and the cost of the taxi from the car rental  site to the garage and pay Ms S 
compensation of £250 in relation to her distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN99532604RAC said that too much  emphasis was placed on the condition of the tyres, as the supervisors  notes  
also said that RAC  relied on the exclusion due to rust or corrosion. It said that the invoice  for the 
service of Ms Ss car before  her holiday shouldnt  be considered genuine, as theres  no registration 
number, mileage, customer name or invoice number, which would all be present on a genuine 
invoice. RAC  said that the tyre looked illegal and the brakes were  in a disgraceful condition  through 
neglect.
Ms S didnt  think  that the compensation suggested by the investigator was sufficient. As there 
was no agreement  between  the parties, the complaint  was passed to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first question for me to determine is whether RAC  treated Ms S unfairly  in refusing her claim. I 
think theres been confusion about RACs  reason for refusing Ms Ss claim.
In Ms Ss detailed statement  of all that occurred, she says that RAC told her that it was refusing her 
claim as the tyres on her car were bald or unroadworthy. Thats the only reason mentioned in RACs 
final response letter  to Ms S too.
RAC is the expert here and Id expect it to set out clearly the exclusion  on which it seeks to rely. On 
balance, I think RAC  told Ms S that it was refusing her claim because  of the condition  of the tyres.  It 
mentioned only that exclusion in its final response to Ms S. So, Im proceeding  on the basis that 
RAC sought to rely on that exclusion.
I appreciate that RACs notes refer to the general condition of Ms Ss car, several grounds for 
exclusion and breakdowns that would be prevented by routine servicing. It seems to me that the 
supervisor made a note of several exclusions, some of which  werent relevant. On balance,  Im not 
satisfied that RAC told Ms S that it relied on anything other  than the exclusion relating to 
unroadworthy tyres.
So, its for me to determine  whether RAC acted fairly  in refusing Ms Ss claim because  the 
breakdown was due to unroadworthy tyres. Its common ground that the breakdown  of Ms Ss car 
was due to the rear break pad and disk. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that the breakdown was due 
to unroadworthy tyres. Even if the tyres of Ms Ss car were
unroadworthy  which is disputed  it didnt  cause  the breakdown.  So, RAC cant  rely on that 
exclusion in the policy.
Even if I took a different view about the grounds on which  RAC refused  Ms Ss claim, I dont think 
RAC can rely on the exclusion in relation to breakdowns which would be prevented  by routine  
servicing. Im satisfied  that Ms Ss car had a routine service before her holiday. Whilst I note RACs  
points in relation to the invoice for the service, its not uncommon  for invoices to bear scant 
information. Ive seen  a visa debit receipt for the payment of the service. On balance, Im satisfied 
that the service took place. So, the breakdown wasnt prevented  by routine servicing. Theres 
nothing to suggest that Ms S would or should have been aware of the condition of one of the brake 
pads and disks.
To put matters right,  I think that RAC  should reimburse Ms S for any costs she incurred  due to the 
breakdown that would have been  covered  under the policy, such  as repair  and taxi costs, subject to 
the policy  terms  and conditions.  As Ms S has been kept out of the use of the money shes paid,  it 
should also pay her interest on the amounts she paid, from the dates  she paid them until 
settlement.
Ref: DRN99532605A car breakdown whilst  on holiday abroad is, in itself, stressful. RAC isnt responsible for that. But 
there was delay in RAC dealing with Ms Ss claim.  Ms S asked  for assistance on Monday  3  
September 2018 and her claim  was incorrectly  refused on Thursday 6 September 2018.  There  were  
also instances  of miscommunication about taxis and car hire collection and delivery,  which no doubt  
added to the difficulties  Ms S faced. In all the circumstances,  I think  fair compensation for Miss Ss 
distress and inconvenience  is £400. In reaching that view Ive taken  into account the nature, extent 
and duration  of the distress  and inconvenience  Ms S suffered  as a result of RACs  handling and 
refusal of her claim.
Ms S asked that RAC apologises for the service it provided to her. I dont think a forced 
apology would  have  much meaning, so I wont ask RAC  to issue one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint.  I intend to direct  RAC Insurance
Limited to;
1.reimburse costs  Ms S incurred due to the breakdown which would have been covered 
under the policy on production of appropriate proof of payment and subject to the policy 
terms and conditions;
2.pay interest on the amount reimbursed  at 8% simple* per year, from the date(s)  of 
payment(s) to the date of settlement  and;
3.pay Ms S compensation of £400 in relation to her distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires RAC  to take off tax from this interest. RAC must  give
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN9953260