K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs M, who are represented by a third party, complain that Nottingham Building 
Society mis-sold  them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy in 1993 when they 
were arranging a mortgage.
Background
The policy included cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  Only Mr M was 
covered under the policy.
Our adjudicator thought that the policy had been  mis-sold. This was because  they thought  
it wasnt made clear enough  that Mr M, who had suffered serious ill health in the past, 
wouldnt be able to claim successfully on the PPI policy for his condition  or any illness or 
condition related to it. Because  Nottingham  Building Society  disagreed with our 
adjudicators findings,  the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Having considered everything, Im upholding  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont 
think Nottingham Building Society  did enough to make them  aware of the exclusion relating 
to medical conditions.
Nottingham Building Society has told us that it didnt  make a recommendation that 
Mr and Mrs M should buy the cover. But it still needed to make  sure that the information 
it gave them about  the cover was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  that Nottingham Building Society has given us from 
the sale. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs M ticked a box on the mortgage application form to 
show that they wanted to take out PPI. So I think they ought to have been aware that they 
had a choice about taking  out the policy. And from their own notes on the form, it looks  like 
Mr and Mrs M sent in a separate PPI application form. Taking all of that into account,  plus 
what I know about Nottingham Building  Societys  sales process at the time, I think  
Mr and Mrs M ought to have been  aware  that they had a choice about whether to buy the 
policy. 
Ive seen that the policy says that customers wont be covered for conditions  they knew 
about when they bought the cover, as well as conditions or diseases  which  they had 
treatment for in the 24 months before buying  the cover. Mr M had a long-standing medical 
condition  first diagnosed  in 1983   that required him to take regular medication in 
increasing doses  and had led regular absences  from his work. From time to time his 
condition also required stays in hospital. 
Nottingham Building Society says that Mr M didnt say anything about  his medical 
condition when he took out the policy. It also points out that Mr M had made  two 
successful claims  on the policy, but unfortunately it no longer has details of the reasons  
for each  claim. 
Ref: DRN99868542Although this was a non-advised  sale, Nottingham  Building Society  still needed to ensure 
that exclusions like this were brought to Mr and Mrs Ms attention at the time of the sale,  but 
Ive no way of knowing  how or if this in fact happened. And I think  Mr and Mrs M probably 
would have paid less attention to details about the policy  if theyd been  sent to them  later. 
I therefore think Nottingham Building Society failed to show it did enough to highlight  the 
exclusion relating  to medical conditions to Mr and Mrs M. Its possible that this failing 
wouldnt have changed their minds about  taking out the policy.  But given the nature of 
Mr Ms condition,  which  is serious and likely to be lifelong, I dont think  I can safely 
conclude that they would  have taken out the policy despite Nottingham Building Societys 
failings.
It follows that Im upholding the complaint  for the above reasons.
Putting things  right
Mr and Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loans were  bigger than they 
shouldve been  and they paid more than they shouldve  each month.  So Mr and Mrs M 
need to get back the extra  theyve paid.
So, Nottingham Building Society  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI for the entire  policy 
length.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs M paid each month from when 
they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nottingham 
Building Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  
them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nottingham Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nottingham Building Society must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  Nottingham Building Society Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9986854