K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about a fixed sum loan he entered into with Caledonian  Consumer Finance
Ltd for a course he has never received.  Mr G would like a full refund.
background
Mr G said a representative  of a training provider came to his home in summer 2012.  He
persuaded him to enter into an agreement to pay for an electrical training course. He felt
there was a lot of pressure and he signed  up. He was told this was not an offer he could
accept later, if he didnt  sign he would lose this opportunity completely and there was no
other way to sign up to the course.  He said he believed there was no time limit within  which
he had to complete  the course  and he wasnt told it had to be done  within  36 months.
He also said that hed later seen a television programme  suggesting  the supplier was not
accredited to deliver the course.  He felt there was a misrepresentation made to him. He said
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Caledonian were  jointly  liable and should
refund him his fee. However the supplier  said he was too late to take the course and wasnt
entitled to a refund.
Caledonian confirmed  Mr G had completed  the repayments of the loan and the last payment
was made  in February 2016. It said Mr G initially complained about the suppliers ability  to
supply the course.  In relation to timescales to complete the course it referred  to point 3 of the
enrolment form and clause 15 of the terms and conditions. It said the contract provided the
course should be completed  within 36 months  of enrolment and the contract  expired in July
2015.
It said that in September 2012  another entity  took over from the original contracted  supplier
on an identical basis. Both entities  were fully accredited to deliver the training in question. It
said based on its enquiries the course was fully available to Mr G and it couldnt uphold  the
complaint and no refund was due. It said no notice  of assignment to the new supplier was
given to Mr G.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In summary my provisional  decision says that Mr 
G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian in mid 2012 for nearly  £6,000. 
The loan was to cover the cost of an electrical training course and was repayable over 42 
months.
Ive seen a copy  of the agreement which is stated to be a fixed  sum loan agreement
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  It is between Caledonian, Mr G and a credit
intermediary who is the supplier. I am satisfied this shows there was a debtor, creditor,
supplier agreement in place and that section 75 and section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act
is applicable to this agreement.
Section 75 provides in effect that if Mr G has a claim against the course supplier for breach
of contract  or misrepresentation he shall also have  a like claim against Caledonian. Section
56 provides that any antecedent negotiations with Mr G conducted by the supplier shall in
effect be deemed to be conducted by the negotiator  as agent of the creditor,  in this case
Caledonian.
It is clear that I can consider whether statements  made  to Mr G at the time he entered into
the agreement  amounted  to misrepresentations and whether there has been  any breach of
Ref: DRN93517902contract.
Mr G says he was under  the impression there  was no time limit for completion  of the course.
He says he believed  the course was flexible and it was up to him how quickly and when he
could complete it. He said that due to work and other issues  he wasnt  able to start the
course. He only became  aware there might be a time limit when he was asked for feedback
when he completed  the loan repayments.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  the detail of time limits was discussed or drawn  to Mr
Gs attention at the time he signed  up. The notes completed by the representative focus
instead on the nature of the loan.
Given the time elapsed  it is difficult to be certain what was said at the time.  In those
circumstances I need to decide what was most  likely to have happened.  In the light of the
evidence I dont think the time limit can have been explained. I say that because Mr G made
no haste to start the course and continued to make  and completed repayment of the loan in
full and on time. This was a loan of a significant size compared to his annual  income  stated
on the form.
It seems  to me very unlikely that anyone would complete payments on a loan for a course
which by the time of the final year of payments, he isnt able to undertake. I think Mr Gs
behaviour supports his statement that he was unaware of any such time limit. Had he been
aware I think he wouldve  taken steps  to contact  the supplier to discuss the delay and to
seek an extension.
I have considered the enrolment form and the terms and conditions which Caledonian refers
to and that Mr G shouldve read the contract at the time he signed. But its clear this was a
high pressure situation. Even  if he had read the terms  I dont  think  he wouldve  concluded
there was a time limit. I say that because while the enrolment form says the course  may
take 12 to 36 months  to complete it does not in my view make clear  that it must  be
completed by no later than 36 months  from enrolment.
I think it is reasonable to infer the statement is giving an indication  of the typical time periods
that people take to complete the course. The statements  about  the flexibility  of the course
and the supplier wont chase simply reinforce this. The law would require that the contract is
interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it, so in Mr Gs favour.  I would also expect a
term that is so important to be made very clear on the face of the contract and by the
representative at the time.  If the contract  was clear  it wouldnt require complex interpretation
by reference to several other clauses to reach  a conclusion that there was a time limit for
completion.
I have considered whether there  was a misrepresentation at the time the contract was
entered into. I have concluded that no statement was made  to warn Mr G about a time limit
for the course. In effect there was a misrepresentation by silence. As a general rule silence
does not usually create legal liability. However  in a situation such  as this I think there was a
duty to disclose something as material as a time limit for supply. I have concluded that I dont
think any such statement was made and that the contract isnt clear about  any time limit and
therefore Mr G should  get the benefit of interpretation in the manner he stated.  Even if I am 
wrong in my analysis, I think  it would  be grossly unfair for Mr G to spend 42 months  paying  a 
significant amount  for a course  that was only available  for a fixed period that he was 
unaware of and where the supplier made no attempt at any point to point out
time was running out.
Ref: DRN93517903Given that Mr G has tried to start the course  and been refused, I think  the supplier is in
breach of contract.  In the light of section  75 I think that Mr G can reasonably require
Caledonian to repay the loan in full.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd 
should repay the loan in full.
Mr G agreed with my proposed decision. He said the reason he hadnt started the course 
was due to health and work problems.
Caledonian said:-
The complaint  shouldnt have been reopened as Mr G missed  a deadline
There was no high pressure situation
The terms and conditions and contract  make clear the course must be completed in 
36 months
The course was available to him during those 36 months
The provider tried to contact Mr G 54 time during the course term and he didnt reply.
It didnt think the proposed direction  was fair and reasonable. It also said that the case  
should not be considered  by this service  as Mr G missed  the deadline for escalation.  It said 
Mr G failed to reply  to the outcome of the adjudicators investigation in the original timescale. 
It had been told the case was closed.  Some two months later it was reopened and referred 
to an ombudsman. Without a good  explanation  for the exception to the rules  it thought  the 
case should remain closed on the basis of the adjudicators original finding. It said it had 
been strictly  bound to meet the deadlines set out by this service, but it appeared that Mr G 
wasnt. It questioned  the fairness and impartiality of this approach. 
It also said there was no evidence that Mr G was subjected to a high pressure situation and 
the terms and conditions were made clear from the outset. Mr G contacted  the supplier and 
a member of the sales team then arranged  to visit. The college tried to contact Mr G re 
progress on 54 occasions to encourage participation between  2012 and 2015. He was 
supplied with the course curriculum that confirmed  it should be completed within 36 months. 
He also had a cooling off period to carefully  consider  the contract.  Given the cost of the 
course it thought  Mr G would make  this a priority.
Mr G became aware of the time limit in April 2016  but didnt contact the college until July 
2017. The original  complaint didnt  mention  misrepresentation  re course duration.  His 
complaint was originally  about something hed seen on television and some 4 years after he 
signed up. It wouldve expected a complaint sooner. The matter wasnt  referred  to this 
service until just before the time limit expired. It felt Mr G never processed matters within 
what it felt was reasonable time frames so his failure to contact  the college wasnt unusual or 
out of character for him.
It disputed who had contacted Mr G for feedback  on the course.
Ref: DRN93517904It said the 36 month duration  was clear in the terms and conditions  and course  curriculum.  
With respect to the change in the party delivering the course this made no difference to the 
service provided to Mr G and wasnt relevant. 
While the wording on timeframe made  clear  the course was flexible it didnt imply the time 
frame for completion was open ended. Instead  it made clear there was a minimum of 12 
months and maximum of 36.
It referred to clause 15 of the terms and conditions. It didnt think it required complex 
interpretation and said it was clear the course  had a maximum duration, the specific course 
maximum was in the course curriculum and the student can complete within the timeframe  
allowed or apply  for extension. The course curriculum  said the average duration was 24 
months but if there are multiple subjects it may take up to 36 months to complete the course.
However in order to resolve  matters it was prepared to offer a course extension free of 
charge for up to 24 months but Mr G rejected  this. It was disappointed  the offer was rejected.  
It said the complaint  appeared  to be entirely centred around the expiry of time to do the 
course, and the offer was logical, fair and reasonable. Mr Gs refusal to accept suggested 
that disappointment  regarding  completing  the course wasnt  his primary motivation for the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the correspondence re the closure  of the case  following the decision of the 
adjudicator in spring 2018. I note the letter to Caledonian  makes  clear the file may be 
reopened if the Mr G asked this service to do so. That is exactly  what happened. The 
deadlines for responding to adjudicator decisions are set for good management purposes 
and dont affect whether the case can be looked at again and the letter made that clear.  So 
the pattern  of events doesnt  prevent this case  being  considered  by me.
I have considered the issue  of timescales for reply. I can see that Mr G was given until 10 
May to reply to the adjudicators view. He called  back a few days  before the deadline and 
asked to see the evidence provided by Caledonian so that he could draft a reply. He also 
sent some  copy papers  but didnt initially explain why he disagreed  with the view.  He then 
left a voicemail after the deadline but in the meantime the adjudicator had closed  the file. 
The matter  was later reopened in July. I can understand this is frustrating for Caledonian but 
given this is a valid complaint I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to exclude the 
complaint from proceeding because of an over hastiness in issuing a closure  letter that 
warned the case  might  be reopened.
I consider that by issuing a provisional  decision I have  provided Caledonian with fair and 
reasonable opportunities to make  representations about the complaint and that it is fair for 
me to proceed to issue a final decision in the light of those representations.
Caledonian say the complaint we are considering isnt the same as the original complaint 
made to it. When a complaint is made by a consumer it isnt uncommon that it may not be 
well explained at the outset. That is why when  a case  is first referred to this service we 
contact the business to set out our understanding of the complaint and to ask it to say if it 
disagrees about the nature of complaint. This is what  happened  in this case. In particular  our 
Ref: DRN93517905first letter to Caledonian issued in early 2018  said that Mr G wasnt told about  the need  to 
complete the course in 36 months and that he wanted  a full refund. Caledonian was asked if 
it disagreed. This was discussed in a telephone  call with Caledonian and it was agreed that if 
it wasnt covered by their FRL we would include the issue of time and this was agreed.  It 
then responded  to the issue specifically by referring  to contractual  provisions. So I think the 
nature of the complaint  was clear from the outset of the involvement of this service, was 
agreed and Caledonian has been provided with fair opportunities to respond and provide 
whatever argument  and evidence it wished. 
I have considered the arguments about  the interpretation of the contractual provisions and 
that time to do the course wouldnt  be open ended. For the reasons already  given  I havent  
changed my mind. In particular there  is no one clear  statement in the contract  that it must be 
completed within 36 months. Reaching such a conclusion requires reading several clauses  
and drawing a particular conclusion. While this may not require complex interpretation it 
requires interpretation  rather than a simple clear  statement about the time limit. As I have 
explained other conclusions interpreting those  times  are possible such  as that there is no 
time limit or that the times  mentioned are indicative. As I pointed  out the law would seek  to 
interpret the contract  in favour of the party that didnt  draft it so that it what  I have done. 
I have considered that Mr G was sent many standard chasing text messages re the course. 
Mr G confirms that he received these.  He said none  of the messages  made  any reference to 
running out of time. He said this reinforced the fact they had a correct contact number, but 
failed to contact  him to tell him time was running out. So I dont think this makes any 
difference to my provisional conclusions as the message  didnt tell Mr G time was running 
out and he remained  unaware of this.
Caledonian denies there was any high pressure sale. Even if they are right my decision 
doesnt rely on this. Its conclusions are based  on an interpretation of the contract and 
absence of any clear warnings about  the time limit for the course. 
Caledonian also refers  to Mr Gs pattern of taking action in the past and the delay between  
becoming aware in April 2016  and complaining  in 2017. But that doesnt make  a difference 
the fact remains Mr G wasnt aware  of the deadline  and when he asked to do the course he 
was rejected on the basis he was out of time.  So whether or not he had a pattern of time 
passing before action  he wasnt  on notice  that could mean he couldnt take the course at all.
I have considered the offer that Caledonian made to Mr G to allow him to take the course for 
free within a limited  time period. However Mr G has rejected this offer as hed already asked 
and been rejected. He said the time had passed for this. Caledonian seems to imply that Mr 
Gs motivation has always been  to get a refund and not to do the course. But I also need to 
consider Mr Gs view. I can see that offering to provide the course could seem a reasonable 
solution to this dispute, but Mr G is indicating that while  he couldve done it when he asked  
the window of opportunity has now passed. I have considered  the time that has elapsed and 
Mr Gs view that time for him to do this has moved  on. I have decided  that on balance in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint it isnt a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. 
I have therefore  decided to uphold this complaint  and direct that Caledonian should repay Mr 
G the amount  of the loan plus 8% simple interest  from the date of original payment by Mr G 
to the date of repayment to him. The application  of 8% simple  interest  wasnt  mentioned  in 
my provisional decision but Caledonian has been  advised that this would be applied  and 
Ref: DRN93517906havent made any further comment  but confirmed they didnt want  to make further 
submissions.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd should repay Mr G the full amount of the loan 
plus 8% a year simple from the date of payment by Mr G to the date of my final decision.
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd must  pay the compensation within 28 days of
the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr G how much its taken
off. It should  also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9351790