K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the new car he acquired  with finance from BMW Financial Services  
(GB) Limited (BMW).
background
Mr M says he acquired the car in September 2013.  He says hes experienced various faults,  
some of which have been  repaired  under warranty. And he says in January 2017 the 
cylinder head gasket  failed,  leading  to engine failure.
Mr M also says BMW hasnt helped  him with his complaint against  the manufacturer.  He 
says it hasnt given  him time to pursue a legal  claim against the roadside assistance  
organisation that he says wrongly  advised  him the car could be driven after the gasket failed. 
And he says hes accrued  substantial arrears and consequent defaults under his finance 
agreement as a result of the situation.
BMW says it can see no warranty claims relating to the head gasket before the breakdown in 
January 2017.  And it says, based  on this information its satisfied Mr M was supplied  with a 
car that was of satisfactory quality  at the point  of sale. So, BMW  says it isnt able to assist   
Mr M with the repairs needed to his car and it cant agree to accept  the rejection of it.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he asked BMW for help, but it 
wasnt provided. And he says it shouldve  looked at the facts and considered why issuing a 
default was an extreme course of action.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr Ms given us a great deal of information  about  the background to his complaint and also 
about his disputes with the manufacturer of his car and with the roadside  assistance 
organisation that attended his breakdown in January 2017. But in this decision  I can only 
consider whether BMWs  done anything wrong, as his finance provider.
BMW supplied Mr Ms car under  a hire purchase  agreement, so it was responsible for 
ensuring that the car was of satisfactory  quality  and fit for purpose at the point  of supply.
I see Mr M experienced various  issues with the car that were  repaired under warranty.  But I 
also see his complaints mainly about the failure  of the cylinder head gasket in January 2017 
that led to engine failure.
In view of the fact that the car was around three  years and four months  old when this 
incident occurred  and given the mileage it had covered at that time, I cant  conclude  the 
gasket failure was the result of a fault that was present or developing when the car was 
Ref: DRN97773842supplied. I think its more  likely to have  been the result of normal wear and tear for a car of 
that age and mileage. And this means  I cant uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
I see Mr Ms also unhappy about  BMWs handling of this matter and he feels  it hasnt been 
sympathetic to his situation. But I think BMW was entitled to expect Mr M to continue  making 
payments under his finance agreement  whilst  his dispute was on-going with the 
manufacturer of his car and with the roadside  assistance organisation. And I see it kept him 
informed about  the arrears  he was accruing and it asked him to contact  it to discuss the 
situation. Ive also seen information  indicating  Mr M had already accrued arrears  before the 
incident Ive referred  to that resulted in the car becoming unusable.
So, whilst Ive sympathy for Mr M in relation  to the situation hes found himself in, I dont 
think this was due to any fault for which BMWs responsible. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BMW  to seek to recover the arrears under Mr Ms finance agreement or to 
register a default  on his credit file, in the circumstances.     
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9777384