K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about what happened when they asked  U K Insurance  Limited 
(UKI) to repair a leak under their home  emergency  policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs T have  a home emergency policy provided by UKI, that they receive as part of a 
packaged bank  account. 
Mr and Mrs T said that they rang UKI about a leak on 19 November 2018. They said that 
they had no hot water,  and a loss of pressure in the boiler, which they put down to a leak 
from a pipe next to the boiler. UKI did some work, which the couple  werent  very happy  with, 
and didnt think had fixed the problem. Mr T was then overseas for a short  while, and when 
he returned at the end of November, there was still no hot water. 
UKI sent someone  out again, but now the boiler itself was also leaking. Mr and Mrs T were  
left with no heating. They were given  alternative accommodation for two nights, then offered 
money to buy two heaters. They said this was inadequate to heat a five bedroom house  in 
the middle of winter,  especially  as they had an elderly relative staying. 
UKI made further visits in early December.  Heating  was restored to some parts of the house 
then. But Mr and Mrs T expressed doubts as to whether these engineers  had successfully 
diagnosed the problem.  Mr and Mrs T said they had been asked to contribute  to the cost of 
parts, but their bank manager intervened and they werent charged. 
A visit from UKI on 21 December  left the couple  with no heating again. UKI had now 
discovered a leak inside the boiler.  Mr and Mrs T said that they had suggested repeatedly 
before that this might be the case.  Promised repairs were not actually completed until 
12 January. 
Mr and Mrs T said that they thought that their boiler  had been damaged by delays in making  
the first repair. They thought that UKI had taken an unreasonable amount of time to 
complete repairs. They  set out a number of mistakes that UKI had made, and explained  the 
effect that an intermittent  but ongoing  loss of heating and hot water had on them  and their 
family over the Christmas period. 
UKI accepted that the service that Mr and Mrs T experienced  was at a less than desired 
level. It apologised for that. But it said that it had waived an extra charge of over £400 for 
parts, so it wouldnt pay Mr and Mrs T any compensation.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that she didnt think  that the time taken to fix 
the boiler was reasonable. She didnt think that Mr and Mrs T wouldve been over their policy  
limit if things had gone right. She thought that UKI should pay £300  in compensation. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  with that. They didnt think that the £400  repair  cost that UKI 
waived should  be factored  into the compensation calculation, because  they said that UKI 
caused the problem in the first place.  They  said that they hadnt  yet received an electric  bill 
for the time when theyd had to heat their house  using  electric  radiators and electric 
blankets. They felt the minimum level of compensation should be £500. 
Ref: DRN96035732UKI wouldnt pay that. It said that it thought  that the £300 that our investigator had suggested 
was fair. 
Because Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator, the case  was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr and Mrs T had a home emergency policy with UKI which provided cover for incidents 
in their home which would, if not dealt with quickly, leave  their home  without heating. It 
covered emergencies relating to plumbing in their home, and the main  source  of heating 
in the home.  There was a limit on the cover per call-out of £750 for call-out fees, parts,  
labour and materials.
-Mr and Mrs T had set out what they say happened. And UKI also sent us a brief timeline 
of what went wrong.  What Mr and Mrs T said suggested they thought that UKI had 
misdiagnosed problems with their boiler.  There wasnt enough in what  UKI has said for 
me to be clear if that was the case or not. But I noted that the length of time that this 
issue seemed to have  gone on for provided some support  for what Mr and Mrs T said.  
-What UKI showed us also suggested  to me that there had been  avoidable  delays. It 
hadnt explained why a heating  system  that was signed off as no further parts  needed 
and described  as working on 12 December, then failed again on 13 December. And 
there was no explanation  of why, when replacement parts  were  identified as necessary  
on 18 December, the seal pack that was also required was missed from this list, and not 
ordered until 21 December. So it did seem  as if UKI had made mistakes in this case.
-UKI said it thought  that compensation should  be limited to the amount that our 
investigator suggested, of £300.  It wanted me to take account of the fact that it waived  
the amount which Mr and Mrs Ts claim went  over the policy  limits. 
-Mr and Mrs T had a policy  limit of £750 per call out. UKIs  assessment of the amount by 
which Mr and Mrs T had exceeded this limit was based on adding  the cost of all their 
visits together. 
-It didnt seem to me to be fair for UKI to say that each  time its had to pay someone  to go 
to Mr and Mrs Ts home, but the boiler hasnt been fully fixed,  that meant that the claim 
remained open, so that all these costs have  to be added together  for the purposes  of 
working out if the policy limit has been  reached. Particularly  as UKI told Mr and Mrs T on 
12 December that it had completed  the job, advised that no further parts  were  needed  
and was now working but Mr and Mrs T rang the next day to say that the radiators 
werent working and the boiler was still leaking.  
-UKI was counting the work it did up to 12 December, and from 13 December onwards, 
as all one call out. I didnt think that was a fair and reasonable approach. 
-I considered what Mr and Mrs T told us about the length of time these problems went  on 
for, and the inconvenience this caused to them. I did think  that UKI should pay some  
compensation. Given the length  of time these problems went  on for, and the effect  on 
Ref: DRN96035733Mr and Mrs T, I wasnt persuaded that £300  was the right amount to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case.  
-UKI asked me to take account of what it said was over £400 of waived charges. But I 
didnt think that it was fair to have assessed costs  in the way that UKI had done. I didnt 
think that UKI shouldve decided that Mr and Mrs T were over their policy  limits by this 
amount. So I didnt think I should  count  UKIs  waiving of those  amounts  as part of the 
compensation in this case. 
-For the reasons  set out above, I thought  that a payment of £500  would  provide  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what  I proposed  to award.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to say that they agreed  with and accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Although neither side has offered anything  further, Ive still reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited  must pay Mr and Mrs T £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9603573