K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Audi Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality. Hes being helped  with his complaint by his mother.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr B under  a hire purchase agreement  with Audi Finance that he 
signed in July 2017. He had some issues with the cars wheels and tyres  and it was 
identified that the alloy wheels on the car werent  the correct  size. He complained to the 
dealer and it agreed to replace the cars wheels. Mr B says that he made a contribution to 
the cost of the replacement wheels.
About three months later one of the wheels  came off when Mr B was driving the car. He 
complained to Audi Finance in October 2018 but it didnt uphold his complaint and said that, 
as hed stopped making  the required payments under the agreement, it had been terminated 
in August 2018. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that on the 
basis of the evidence that hed received  he was unable to agree that Audi Finance should be 
responsible for the fault that occurred.
Mr Bs mother  on his behalf - has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman and shes provided a copy of the breakdown report from when the wheel came 
off.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Bs mother has referred  to the health  
issues that Mr B has suffered and the difficulties that theyve caused him  and I understand 
that hes entered into an individual voluntary arrangement. I sympathise with him for all that 
hes had to deal with.
Audi Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr B was about four years old, had been driven  for 21,830 miles and had a price of £18,333. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr B in July 2017  and he had some issues with the cars wheels 
and tyres.  It was identified  that the alloy wheels  on the car when it was supplied  to him 
werent the correct  size. He complained to the dealer  and it replaced the cars wheels in late 
March 2018. Mr B says that he made  a contribution to the cost of the replacement  wheels.
About three months later, in late June 2018, one of the wheels came off when Mr B was 
driving the car. The breakdown report describes the nature of the breakdown as wheel 
broken off but provides no further  information  about the cause  of that. Mr Bs mother  says 
Ref: DRN90186162that they were  told that the wheel  had come off because  a nut had sheared off and that was 
a result of the nut not being adequately tightened.  
Mr B returned the car to the dealer and complained to Audi Finance in October 2018. Hed 
not made the payments  that were due for the car in May, June and July 2018 and hed been 
sent a notice of arrears  and a default notice so it said that it had terminated his agreement  in 
August 2018.  
Mr B then complained to this service and said that he wanted the dealer to take back the car 
at no cost to him and to pay him reasonable compensation  for the loss of earnings  and 
distress caused. The dealer  accepted  that the car was supplied with incorrectly  sized  wheels 
and those wheels  were replaced in March 2018.  One of the wheels broke  off about three 
months later. But Im not persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show  that it broke  off as 
a result of the wheels  being incorrectly fitted in March 2018 or because  the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. 
I sympathise with Mr B for what must have been  an upsetting  experience. But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Audi Finance to pay any 
compensation to Mr B, to release him from his liability  under the agreement   or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
Audi Finance has already terminated  the agreement because of Mr Bs unpaid  arrears. It 
repossessed the car and sold it at auction  in November 2018 and used the proceeds of sale 
to reduce Mr Bs outstanding liability to it. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to seek 
payment from Mr B of the money  that he owes to it (to the extent that its legally entitled to 
do so). It says that Mr Bs debt is being  managed  on its behalf by a third party and that Mr B 
has entered into an individual voluntary arrangement. Audi Finance is required to respond  to 
Mr Bs financial difficulties  positively  and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9018616