K821x#15complaint
Mrs D, represented by her daughter and live-in carer, Ms D, has complained  about her home 
insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc in relation to its settlement offer made to resolve 
snagging issues related to insured repairs it undertook, and about the underfloor heating  
system it replaced.
background
Mrs D originally complained to this service  around  May 2016. That complaint ultimately 
came to me for a decision to be made. On agreement of the parties, our consideration of 
how RSA had handled the claim extended to the point the repairs,  bar any snagging, had 
completed in around December 2016. My final decision issued around April 2017 focused on 
the claim handling issues; I awarded compensation for upset as well as to reimburse  some  
out of pocket expenses Mrs D had incurred. 
Around the time the repairs completed  in 2016,  Mrs D had become concerned about  the 
underfloor heating in her bathroom. RSA had re-laid or replaced this in August 2016 
following concerns  that been raised about the work it had completed on the installation  
earlier in the claim. In April 2018  RSA assessed  the system and, in a site visit in June  2018,  
it reviewed the issue, including completing thermal image testing. RSA told Mrs D that the 
heating system was sound and it would do nothing else unless she provided a report. RSA 
did not provide  a final response on this issue.
Meanwhile, Mrs D had remained concerned that the claim, in respect of other outstanding 
work, had still not been completed. What was outstanding  was discussed during 2017. In a 
final response issued  in May 2018,  RSA said it had reviewed matters from April 2017 
onwards. Having done so it noted that its contractor had recently offered £500 
compensation. RSA said it felt that offer was fair and didnt offer anything  more. 
The parties continued to discuss the outstanding  elements of the claim. RSA said it was 
agreeable to doing the work  but when Mrs D asked it to wait and do the work the following 
year, as her health in the winter months  is often poor, it didnt think that was reasonable. It 
thought a cash settlement would be fair.
In a final response in October 2018 RSA explained that it would add 4% to what  it felt was a 
fair cost for completing the outstanding  works (this did not include  the underfloor  heating)  
this would allow Mrs D some flexibility in finding a contractor. It said it would also pay for 
14 nights hotel stay,  at a rate of £80 per night for bed and breakfast plus £10 per day as a 
disturbance allowance. 
Mrs D felt the settlement  offered was not enough to complete the works and she felt this put 
too much  pressure on her. She wanted RSA to agree to do the work,  in the summer, and 
give her plenty of notice of when  this would definitely happen so she could find somewhere 
to stay. In that respect she said her needs were complex. In February  2019, when RSA 
wasnt minded to change its mind,  Mrs D made a further complaint to us.
RSA said it didnt think we could look at how it had handled the claim prior to May 2018. It 
also said Mrs Ds concern  about the underfloor heating, in its view,  fell outside the scope of 
this complaint  because  the issue had been  dealt with by it in previous final responses,  and 
since these had been issued, Mrs D hadnt  made another  complaint  to it.  
Ref: DRN91749662Our investigator explained that he couldnt  review matters as they related to anything dealt 
with in the May 2018 final response  letter, or the underfloor  heating.  But he felt RSA did 
need to do more to resolve the claim as he noted  Mrs D is vulnerable. So he thought  RSA 
should be looking to complete the work for her whilst  providing accommodation which  takes 
into account her medical needs and allows for her daughter, who cares for her, to stay.
RSA didnt feel it should have to do anything  more. Mrs D still felt shed  been  treated 
unfairly. The complaint  was passed for an ombudsmans decision.
By chance Mrs Ds complaint came to me. I noted  her concerns about the underfloor heating 
and that, contrary  to what RSA had told us, this element of Mrs Ds current complaint had 
not been dealt with by it in any of its final responses. I also noted  Mrs D had complained to 
RSA about this issue. Therefore, I told both parties  I would  consider Mrs Ds concerns about  
the underfloor  heating as part of this complaint.  I then completed a provisional decision on 
the complaint  as a whole which was issued to both parties.
In short,  I felt that RSA did not need to do anything more  regarding the underfloor heating, 
but that it should complete some  snagging work, whilst providing  alternative accommodation 
for Mrs D and Ms D. I also said it should pay a further £250  compensation. Neither  Mrs D, 
represented by Ms D, nor RSA were happy  with my findings. Ive set out my provisional 
findings below,  along with the parties  responses  and my final considerations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
underfloor heating
Its accepted that in 2016 RSA replaced  the system it had either installed or re-laid earlier  in 
the claim.  A different brand of system  was used. Mrs D is unhappy  about  the change  in 
brand and because she says the system does not work properly. RSA says theres  no 
difference in functionality between the brands, and it ultimately concluded that the system is 
working properly.  
Since 2016 RSA has inspected  the system twice.
Notes made following  its test in April 2018  conclude: it was working and the reasons for the 
hot and cold spots could  be numerous   the pipework  for it could not have been power 
flushed and there might have been some debris when it was laid.
In July 2018 thermal imaging of the pipes was undertaken and temperature readings of the 
floor surface were  taken.  The expert at the time explained that the type of system in question 
does not fail sporadically in different isolated places because it is a cable strung  through  
meshing  it either heats up or it doesnt. Temperature checks on the floor surface showed 
only a difference  of five degrees  centigrade between what  Mrs D said were hot and cold 
areas. The expert confirmed there was no difference in functionality  between the brands of 
system  not unless  the model  of the previous  brand Mrs D had had been  too powerful. 
Ref: DRN91749663Mrs D is concerned the findings of the second  inspection are flawed for a number of 
reasons. She also doesnt think its fair that the findings of the first inspection seem  to have 
just been discounted out of hand.
I have to say, having seen  the notes from the first inspection, Im not persuaded by their 
findings. They suggest that hot and cold spots  werent actually checked  for or found  merely 
that the inspector accepted such existed. And the comments in respect of the power  flush  
seem to suggest the inspector was not aware  of the type of underfloor heating  system in 
place at Mrs Ds home.  So, whilst  Im not sure why RSA discounted the April findings  
I think it was reasonable  for it to revisit the matter  by completing a further  assessment.
In general terms, once an insurer has completed an inspection with the use of appropriate 
experts, unless alternative views are provided  from a similarly qualified expert, this service  
wont interfere with the insurers reasonable findings. Whilst I know  Mrs D has been through 
a lot here, and I can understand why she is cautious, Im not persuaded, based  on her 
concerns about  the test, I can reasonably require RSA to do more in respect of the 
underfloor heating. Im not persuaded its not working correctly, or that RSAs  tests were 
likely flawed  such that it reasonably must check the system again.  
RSA did replace the system in 2016  with a different make. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
that RSA has not provided a like-for-like reinstatement. It is not the brand alone  which  
determines whether  items are alike  and depending on the item the brand may not matter 
at all. I havent seen any evidence that makes me think  the system Mrs D had functioned 
differently to the one RSA installed in 2016. And in reading the expert report  it seems  the 
maximum power level recommended for both types  of system for this type of room is as 
fitted by RSA in 2016. I cant reasonably fault it for having completed  the work  in that way.
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mrs D, Im not going to require RSA to do any 
more in respect of the underfloor heating. The evidence  Ive seen satisfies me that RSA 
reached a reasonable conclusion in respect of the concerns Mrs D had drawn  to its attention  
about the system.
Ms D maintained that there is some  problem with the heating  as it doesnt provide a 
consistent temperature across the floor. She said that whilst the technicians  notes  dont 
seem to reflect this, during the first test he did experience the cold spots. This is now the 
second system installed by RSA and theyve both had the same problem. So Ms D feels  it 
isnt unreasonable to think it might be by the same cause, which  is likely  how it was installed.  
Ms D maintained that the second test was flawed. Ms D said in this case the make is 
important as that dictated the style of thermostat, the current thermostat is complicated and 
has needed to be set by a heating  engineer.  Ms D noted that it was only when the heating 
was replaced for a second time that a different  make  was used, shed like to know  why this 
was changed.
RSA spoke to Ms D following the issuing of my provisional decision. It felt that Ms D would 
disagree with my decision in respect  of the heating and said it was worried  this will cause  her 
to prevent it from completing  the other repairs which Ive mandated  it must do (and which it 
disagrees with). 
I appreciate my decision in respect  of the heating is disappointing for Mrs D. Whilst 
I understand Ms D has concerns about  the notes  recorded  and the testing that was 
undertaken, I cant ignore that documented  expert  evidence and assume instead that Ms D 
is correct that the heating  is not functioning and needs replacing. Its unfortunate the 
Ref: DRN91749664thermostat is not of a style that suits Mrs Ds needs   but that doesnt mean the system as a 
whole is not like the one in place  before.  The thermostat is digital rather than manual  but it 
doesnt seem to be something  that would automatically require  the aid of a professional to 
set, so I think its reasonably similar  to that Mrs D had before. There  might be many reasons 
why a different  make  was used for replacement  the simplest might  be availability of stock. 
But this isnt a question I need  to ask RSA to answer  as it doesnt alter my view about  
Mrs Ds concerns about the system  that is now in place.    
I know RSA has concerns about  how this claim will progress following the issue of my 
decision on Mrs Ds complaint. Ive detailed these further on and provided some  responses.  
I wouldnt expect that a disagreement in respect of one aspect of my findings would impact  a 
reasonable persons view about other issues I have found in their favour  on. Nevertheless, if 
Mrs D disagrees  with any aspect of my decision, it is up to her if she accepts the decision or 
not. If she accepts it (this cant be done  in part or with any caveats  attached) within  the 
deadline given  then RSA will be bound by it  but it still might be the case,  if Mrs Ds actions 
prevented it from complying with my decision, that those  actions  might  amount to frustration. 
But I cant advise the parties about  their legal rights, other than to say this service doesnt  
enforce its decisions,  that is the role of the courts.  
My provisional findings continued:
resolving outstanding repairs
Whilst I agree with RSA that some snagging  is an inevitable  part of most large  loss claims  
I think the use of the term here unfairly  detracts from the magnitude  of what needs resolving. 
The list of works RSA has produced as accepted, dated September 2018,  shows that in 
every single room RSA initially did repairs in there is major work to be done. The kitchen 
floor tiles need the grout raking out and re-grouting to be done, the vinyl flooring in the utility  
needs lifting and replacing, floorboards on the landing and in the bedroom need  replacing 
and, essentially,  the bathroom suite needs removing, re-fixing  and resealing. To me, that list 
is not synonymous with finishing  off or snagging  work. 
I take note of how long this claim has gone  on for. Im also conscious  of Mrs Ds age and 
health. Im not persuaded that RSA, of late, has fully and fairly taken Mrs Ds situation  into 
account. Had it done, Im sure it would have felt it was reasonable for the further  disruption  
she was going  to have to encounter, because it had not completed  claim repairs  properly, to 
be minimised as far as possible. 
Here I think that reasonably means working  with Mrs D by scheduling repairs  at a time which 
suits her. I also think it means  covering the cost of suitable alternative  accommodation   
even if that means  paying more than it might  usually do in the normal course of a claim.
RSAs offer for accommodation was based  on £80 per night  but when I checked this 
appeared to be roughly the cost of a twin-room  at local hotels. Mrs D and Ms D shouldnt  
have to share a room.  In any event, given Mrs Ds health and that this long-running claim is 
still causing disruption, I think it would be fair for RSA to offer Mrs D, should she so wish, a 
cost to allow her to stay with her daughter in accommodation more like her home.  That might 
be a holiday let, or a serviced apartment, or similar. If theres nothing like that in Mrs Ds 
area, or if shed prefer a hotel, the cost allowed for by RSA should be for two interconnecting 
rooms. RSA might be able to use one of its partners to find something  suitable  but Mrs D 
will need  to work with RSA to ensure  something suitable is found.  If RSA wants to book it 
Ref: DRN91749665direct  having agreed with Mrs D when repairs will take place and given it will be in control 
of those repairs  Id agree thats  reasonable. 
RSA will also have to provide Mrs D with assistance  in moving  to and from the alternative  
accommodation. This to include  Mrs D, Ms D and their necessary belongings  if medical 
support for Mrs D for this move is required, RSA should reasonably  arrange  this or cover any 
costs for it. 
RSA believes the works  will take two weeks.  I think  that sounds reasonable. Although there 
is a lot to do, barring  any unforeseen issues, I think a properly co-ordinated programme of 
works could  be completed in that time. I know work  did not go to plan in the early stages of 
the claim but I know RSA is as keen as Mrs D and Ms D to bring  this claim to an end. So Im 
sure it will take care to closely manage  this last stage of the reinstatement work to make  
sure that, if it can at all be avoided, it does not over-run. If anything  unforeseen should occur 
and delays do arise,  Id expect RSA to manage that situation and deal reasonably  with 
Mrs D to ensure her disruption  continues to be minimised. 
I know Ms D has concerns about moving Mrs D at all, and I think  its fair to say that nothing  
can reasonably  occur  now with the pandemic  still in full swing. But the work clearly needs  
doing, and even if Mrs Ds health were better,  the work to be done would still likely require 
her leaving  her home for a time. I understand Ms Ds caution  when  Mrs D left her home  in 
2015, she thought that would only be for a few weeks  but it turned into months. And 
months in wholly  unsuitable  accommodation. But Ive set out instruction in respect  of the 
accommodation and timing of the repairs and necessary move above. I trust that will 
sufficiently reassure Mrs D and Ms D, such that a way forwards  for the final stage of this 
claim, to commence once  the pandemic  and Mrs Ds health allows,  can be agreed.
All that said,  I need to comment on the list of works  to be done. I see that thereve been 
various concerns  raised by Mrs D over the period since the repairs  were  mostly completed in 
2016. Its possible, once the repair of the outstanding work begins, that other issues will 
arise that will need  to be dealt with as part of that work.  I think its reasonable to say that 
RSA should amend the scope to account for anything  like this, should it arise.  However,  
I dont think it would  be reasonable to say RSA should have to, without good  cause,  add any 
other unrelated items into the list for repair which Mrs D and Ms D might  notice and raise  
concerns about  before  the agreed  outstanding work is undertaken. I think its fair to say that 
enough time has passed, since  the initial repairs, for Mrs D and Ms D, before now, to have 
seen anything of concern  likely related to the original repairs.  If they do note other  issues of 
concern, it would be for them  to show reasonable evidence in this respect before RSA would 
need to take any action. 
RSA said it had given  us details previously to show how it had tried to settle things during 
2017 onwards.  It said that in 2018 it even agreed  to fund a twin room  at a hotel for Mrs D 
and Ms D. RSA said it accepts that Mrs Ds needs have now changed but it said its unclear 
what it could have  done in 2018 to make things different. It worries Ive left things too open,  
that repairs havent been allowed to complete  before now, that Mrs D may not now move out 
of the property but that repairs could be done  room by room  if needs be and I should  give a 
more specific timeframe  for both parties to work with.
Ms D said that whilst they felt that, in 2017,  things would progress to repairs being  
completed, that changed when a member of staff changed roles. Ms D said theyve now lost 
faith in RSAs ability to complete this work. Ms D said she is concerned  that moving Mrs D 
now will present too big a risk for her health.
Ref: DRN91749666As our investigator explained, this complaint focuses on activity  in 2018. But I understand 
both parties concerns that the long drawn out history of this claim suggests it isnt going to 
be easily resolved   with or without my findings. I can only urge the parties to work together 
to find a way forwards   the work  does need  doing and whilst it doesnt involve completely 
stripping back rooms, and whilst it isnt anything that has prevented Mrs D from living at the 
property these last few years, I maintain it is more than simple  snagging. If the parties want  
to and can find a way of work progressing on a room by room basis  because doing  that is 
less risk for and less disruption to Mrs D than moving out  then Id see that as a reasonable 
way forward. 
I cant provide specific timeframes  for me to do so for a vulnerable person whilst the 
country is still in unprecedented times would be wholly unfair. Unfortunately  there are limits 
to the findings and awards I can make, and it would be wrong for me to assume  to know 
what Mrs Ds needs are. But Ive given some  guidance and ideas provisionally  Ill add to 
that by saying if Mrs D has mobility issues (as I understand that she does but not the extent 
or exact  nature of those), ruling out accommodation  that has stepped  access would be a 
good start.  Im not saying  it would be the right thing  to do here, but I have  seen situations,  
where it suits the policyholder, where the insurer covers the cost of a short  stay in a care 
home or living assisted  facility. I mention  this to show there are a number of possibilities 
available depending on what Mrs D wants, and to urge RSA to be flexible in its approach.  
But Mrs D will need to think about  what she wants to do  if she wants  the work doing but 
cant stay in the house whilst its done  then shell have to help RSA find a suitable  place for 
her to go to. But if she really cant risk moving, or risk letting the work be done  room by room  
whilst shes in residence, then RSA wont have to progress that work.
RSA has asked what it could have done  differently in 2018. I commented provisionally  that 
offering a twin room  only for Mrs D and Ms D to share for a fortnight wasnt  a reasonable 
offer of accommodation.  Ms D has talked about a call that took place in 2018  she says she 
found it profoundly  distressing, that Mrs D was listening and she felt unheard and cried. 
I havent heard this call but Im aware that RSAs  representative ended it abruptly. And as 
I said provisionally, everything I had seen  in assessing this complaint caused me to conclude 
that RSA, by late 2018, had stopped  listening  to Mrs Ds, its policyholders,  needs.  I remain  
of the view that RSA should have listened to Ms D and Mrs D at that time, offered more 
alternatives for accommodation (even  though it didnt know  exactly  what Mrs Ds needs 
were) and accommodated her request for work to be scheduled for the spring.   
claim handling
I said provisionally:
I accept that this has been a long and drawn  out claim for Mrs D. My previous decision and 
award show that it was not handled well by RSA initially.  But I cant revisit  that or look at how 
things were handled between then and the final response letter  RSA issued  in May 2018.
I think its fair to say that in the period  after the May 2018 letter Mrs D, as well as Ms D on 
her behalf,  were very frustrated that some aspects of the reinstatement remained 
outstanding. I understand  that Ms D was also concerned for Mrs Ds health, and I accept that 
this made  the claim somewhat more  difficult  to progress. I also see that there  were  
discussions during  this time about what work remained  outstanding, and RSA completed its 
further investigations into the underfloor  heating issue. So I think  its fair to say RSA, in the 
main, was trying to progress matters.   
Ref: DRN91749667However, as I said above, I dont  think RSAs ultimate response  on the claim, as confirmed 
in its October 2018 final response letter, was fair or reasonable. At that point it seems it had 
stopped listening  to the needs of its policyholder and decided that, instead of continuing  to 
try and complete  the repair contract  it had entered into in 2015, it was time to just end it by 
settling for the outstanding work in cash.  I accept this was frustrating and upsetting  for 
Mrs D. I think £250  compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Ms D gave some further detail about things that had happened and caused upset. She said 
theres been a huge amount of physical and emotional stress caused  to Mrs D. RSA said 
settling in cash remained a practical way forwards and was in line with the policy terms. It 
said it shouldnt have  to pay compensation merely  because our complaint process  had been  
prolonged.
I understand that both parties  are unhappy  with my compensation  award.  But I remain 
satisfied by my view as stated provisionally,  including the reasoning  I gave for the award 
suggested. Id remind RSA that where  a contract  for repair is entered  into that cannot easily 
be set aside, even  where  a policy  allows in the first instance for a cash settlement to be 
made by the insurer as an alternative  to it undertaking repairs.  I am going  to require RSA to 
pay Mrs D a further £250 compensation.
summary
My findings  above  reflect  that I understand this is a difficult and complex  claim for all 
concerned. Ive considered the submissions  from both parties and given great  thought to the 
remedy I suggested provisionally. I remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But, as is always  the case, it will be for Mrs D to decide  whether or not she 
wants to accept my decision. 
Ref: DRN91749668my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Complete the outstanding work set out in the schedule dated September 2018,  taking 
into account Mrs Ds needs  as explained above, including  the provision, or covering the 
cost, of alternative accommodation  and assistance with, or covering  the cost of, moving 
to and from that location.
Pay Mrs D a further £250 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9174966