K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas)  has been unfair when it said 
it wouldnt meet a claim they submitted under  their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs W were taking a flight. They had both hold and hand luggage  and had packed  
some jewellery in their hand luggage. At the airport they checked in their hand luggage as 
well as their larger cases. One of the items of hand luggage was very delayed  arriving  in the 
baggage hall. When Mr and Mrs W unpacked  it the next day they discovered  some jewellery 
had been stolen. Mr and Mrs W were  told by the airline that it didnt take responsibility for 
valuables packed  in luggage carried in the hold of an airplane.
Mr and Mrs W approached Ageas to make  a claim. Ageas said its policy  specifically 
excluded jewellery  stolen from hand  luggage/travel  bags if they werent attended by Mr and 
Mrs W. It said handing the bags  over to the airline  meant they were no longer attended  by 
Mr and Mrs W  so it wouldnt meet the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W complained but Ageas didnt change its stance, so they brought their 
complaint to us. Theyre being helped with the complaint by their insurance broker.
Our investigator thought Ageas had fairly declined the claim and that the terms and 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Ws policy were clear.
Unhappy Mr and Mrs W have asked that an ombudsman  decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont know exactly why Mr and Mrs W agreed  to have  their hand luggage placed in the hold 
of the plane for their flight. Its not an uncommon situation though, where flights  are full and 
storage in the cabin is in short supply.
Im sorry  Mr and Mrs W have had valuables stolen   that must have been very distressing. 
So Ive thought carefully about whether Ageas has interpreted  the clause in their policy  fairly.
Im afraid I think it has. Ive looked  at Mr and Mrs Ws policy and it says it wont pay for a loss 
of items (in this case stolen)  from unattended travel  luggage. It defines unattended as not 
being within Mr or Mrs Ws view.  This is a common exclusion  in home  insurance  policies.
It seems  clear  to me that, once the bag was handed  over to the airline it would be out of Mr 
and Mrs Ws view  even if it was then the responsibility of the airline. I think  that means the 
bag was unattended as Ageas  defines  this in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative say Ageas isnt interpreting unattended in the spirit of the 
cover  by which  I take it to mean  hes saying they werent being  careless  with their property. 
And I do take that point  but they did hand their valuables over to the airline. Jewellery is 
usually small in size, so it seems to me that they could have transferred it to any remaining 
bag or bags they carried on board,  and so kept it  or at least the bag  in sight  at all times. 
They didnt do that.
Ref: DRN98447192I cant comment on whether the airline has treated Mr and Mrs W fairly,  as this complaint 
isnt about the airline but about Ageas. I can only consider the specific circumstances  
relating to the complaint  about this particular company.
Taking everything into account,  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9844719