K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  overcharged for damage  to his car when he 
returned it.
background 
Mr Ws finance agreement came to an end and his car was collected by an agent appointed 
by PSA who also carried out an inspection. This identified a number of damaged items and 
PSA charged Mr W £1,347. This included  a charge of £200 for an incomplete service  history 
which PSA agreed  to waive. PSA rejected  Mr Ws complaint and he brought  the matter to 
this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  that the 
charge be reduced  by £48. 
He said what is deemed to be fair wear and tear is set out in the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) guidelines. He consulted  these  guidelines in considering  
whether PSA was right in making these charges. Our investigator concluded all the charges,  
but one had been applied  correctly within the BVRLA guidelines.  He was unable  to see a 
visible dent in the left sill panel.
Mr W had complained that he had been charged  £159 for each of three tyres which  had 
cuts. He said that PSA had told him he could have replaced these himself using cheaper 
tyres before returning the car. Our investigator referred to the agreement Mr W had signed 
which said:
He went on to say that once  the vehicle is returned  PSA was entitled to charge to replace 
tyres on a like for like basis using the manufacturers guidelines.
Mr W didnt agree and said that it was unfair  of PSA to make such an excessive charge for 
the tyres  when a cheaper alternative  could have been used. The car had been removed after 
the inspection  and he didnt have the opportunity to replace them himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered in an agreement with PSA which contained the following: 'The vehicle will be 
deemed in 'good condition' for the purposes of this agreement if it is undamaged and has no 
abnormal wear and tear as defined below'
The car wasnt returned in a good  condition as defined in the agreement and amplified by 
the BVRLA guidelines.  It had a number of dents and scratches which went  beyond  the fair 
wear and tear guidelines. Mr W was given fair warning by PSA of its requirements  and he 
had the opportunity to inspect the car himself  and arrange for any repairs  to be carried out 
as required. 
I wont go over the detail of each  item as that has been done  by our investigator. I can only 
say that having read the report  and looked  at the photographs that I am in agreement  with 
his conclusions. The cars value has been diminished by the dents  and scratches and it is 
only fair that PSA is recompensed for such damage.
Ref: DRN93463622On the matter of the tyres I have some sympathy  with Mr W. However, as he didnt have 
them changed before  the car was handed  back it is open to PSA to replace them  with tyres 
of a similar quality to those which had been  fitted by the manufacturer. It isnt obliged to use 
a cheaper tyre, even  thought that would have saved  Mr W some money. Quite simply, as 
long as it replaces  them  with a like for like tyre then it is operating within  the agreement 
which Mr W signed.
I understand Mr W has some difficulty in finding the money needed  to pay this bill and I 
would suggest  he speak to PSA about  entering into some arrangement. I would also remind 
PSA of its obligation  to treat Mr W positively and sympathetically in dealing  with this 
unexpected demand. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to 
reduce the sum charged by £48. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346362