K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a loan. His recollection is that 
he applied  for the loan and PPI over the internet but BoS has been able to confirm it was 
sold in branch and the documentation I have seen  suggests this was mostly likely what 
happened. 
The loan was repayable over a 228-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £94.67 
with the PPI costing  an additional £9.64 making  the total monthly repayment £104.31. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Bs monthly loan repayment for up to 
60 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a site manager. He has told us was entitled to at least six 
months employee sick pay if he was too unwell to work. He didnt tell us of any other 
financial means of repaying  his loan should he be unable to work.  Mr  B has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale but had suffered from measle and chickenpox in his 
childhood. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account 2001.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN99061052The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
The policy contains an unfair contract  term that gives the business  the right to 
unilaterally vary the cover and premium.  Mr B also says that the non-disclosure of 
this term is a breach  of the duty of utmost good faith; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN99061053The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN99061054Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mr B has said that the PPI was 
included as part of the personal  loan package.
BoS doesnt have a copy of Mr Bs loan application  but it has been able to give us a sample  
copy which it said was in use at the time of the sale. And I have no reason to think Mr B 
wouldnt have seen  the same of similar.  
On the personal  loan application form there is a separate heading  entitled  Protecting your 
payments followed by a brief description of the PPI. There  are then two boxes  one to say 
YES, I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered by Personal  Loan 
Repayments Insurance in the event  that I am unable to work  due to involuntary 
unemployment, accident or sickness.  And this box needed to be signed if Mr B had wanted 
to take the PPI. There was an equally prominent box that again needed to be signed if Mr B 
didnt want to take the policy. So, I think its most likely Mr B signed the Yes box to take the 
policy and the PPI was added.
BoS has been able to give us a copy of Mr Bs Personal Loan Agreement which  has a 
separate section  with the question Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance And 
the following  Yes box rather  than the No box has a pre-populated x. And I think the pre-
populated form was a reflection of what Mr B discussed with BoS  representative during the 
meeting. The section details the monthly cost of the loan as well as the PPI and the total.     
Mr B has signed the form so I think if he hadnt wanted the PPI, he could have challenged 
the inclusion  of the policy otherwise I wouldnt have expected him to complete the form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
As Ive said above  Mr Bs recollection is that the sale was made  over the internet and he 
didnt tell us whether advice was given. But because of the documents that BoS has given 
us I do think the sale was most likely  and advised  one. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr B would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN99061055Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet  
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the employee sick pay he says he would 
have been entitled  to and any redundancy he would have  received.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Bs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim (I would not consider  the childhood measles and 
chickenpox Mr B told us he had suffered from to be ongoing  conditions). 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mr B was given a broad description of what  the policy  was intended  to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  his payments if Mr B was unable to work through 
accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr B would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the benefit, exclusions or limitations before  Mr B agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr B. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr B all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN99061056In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,   
Mr B would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
Ref: DRN99061057product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr B was given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr B would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr B knew  about or which a doctor  thinks he ought reasonably to have known 
about or which he asked about  or got advice, treatment or counselling about,  from a 
doctor during  the 12 months  before  the start date of the policy  and which recurred  
within 24 months of the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  as Ive said above,  Mr B didnt  
have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think 
he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN99061058limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking out the policy,  Mr B, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr B made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN99061059That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks this policy contains an unfair  contract term  allowing the 
business to unilaterally vary the cover  and the premium. 
I accept BoS shouldve done  more  to clearly bring the contractual term about  the insurers 
right to unilaterally vary the cover  and premium to Mr Bs attention.  Im satisfied this was a 
significant term and I think Mr B would have  wanted  to know  about  this. Because  Mr B 
wasnt clearly  told I dont  think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
But even if BoS had done more to highlight the term clearly  to Mr B, I dont think  this 
wouldve made a difference  to his decision to buy the PPI. As Ive set out above, Mr B had 
good reasons  to take out the policy. Im also mindful  that Mr B had the right to withdraw from 
the policy with 30 days notice at any time. So, if any changes were proposed by the insurer, 
Mr B had a reasonable amount of time to consider if he wanted to continue  with the policy.  
So, while I accept BoS shouldve done  more to bring this term to his attention, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think he wouldve  been put off buying the policy if BoS 
had done more. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of BoSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr B, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet 
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1999  when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2021.
Ref: DRN990610510Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9906105