K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wants to use the 
compensation it offered to settle his complaint about mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) taken out with a loan.
background
In May 1998  Mr C took out a loan with Tesco and at the same time bought  a PPI policy.  
Mr C, through a third party, has now complained the PPI was mis-sold  and Tesco agreed to 
uphold the complaint. It worked out the compensation  due to Mr C was £3,054.88 but it said 
that as Mr Cs loan was in arrears  it would use this amount to reduce the outstanding 
balance.
Mr C wasnt happy that Tesco  wasnt paying  the compensation directly  to him as he said 
other businesses hadnt  set off compensation against debts he owed. So he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what Tesco had done  was fair. Mr C still wasnt  happy and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco agreed to settle Mr Cs complaint about the mis-sale of the policy  with Mr Cs loan. So 
in this decision Im not looking  at how the PPI came  to be sold,  Im only considering if how 
Tesco wants  to use the compensation  is fair.
Mr C agrees he defaulted on the loan he took out with Tesco. So he had the use of the 
money but didnt  pay it all back and still owes £8,690.23 to Tesco for what  he borrowed in 
1998. 
Under the Rules set by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), known as the DISP Rules, 
Appendix 3 deals  with the handling of complaints about PPI. Appendix  3.9 deals with some  
aspects of the payment of compensation. At DISP App 3.9.1  it states:
Where the complainants loan or credit card is in arrears the firm may, if it has the 
contractual right to do so, make  a payment to reduce the associated loan or credit 
card balance, if the complainant accepts the firms offer of  redress. The firm should  
act fairly and reasonably  in deciding whether to make such a payment.
Mr C has raised  the issue of whether Tesco has a contractual right to set off his 
compensation. As he signed a credit  agreement he legally entered  into a contract  to borrow 
money at a rate of interest and repay it with regular payments. He has breached  that 
contract by defaulting on the terms of payment so Tesco  had legal rights  under that contract 
to recover the money it wants paid back.  
On Mr Cs default in payments to the loan,  Tesco referred the matter to its recoveries 
department and Mr C has been making  some small payments towards the debt. But there is 
Ref: DRN95107762still over £8,500 to be repaid. Tesco has never sold the debt to any third party so the legal 
interest in the debt Mr C owes remains with Tesco.
So Mr C still has a legal duty to repay  that debt. The compensation he is due for the mis-sale 
is a debt that Tesco owes to him. So what it wants to do is to use its debt to Mr C, to set 
against the debt he still owes to Tesco. 
In law this is called the equitable  right to set off which allows people to set-off closely 
connected debts.  This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe another 
person (B), money which that person (B) owes  to them. DISP  App 3.9.1, that I have quoted  
above, reflects this.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection  between  
the PPI compensation and the outstanding  debt.  I must also consider whether  it would  be 
unjust not to allow Tesco to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for me to find that 
Tesco has an equitable  right to set-off the PPI compensation against Mr Cs outstanding 
debt on his loan.  
The PPI sold to Mr C was directly connected to his loan as it was sold at the same time and 
the premium to pay for the PPI added to what he borrowed. Using the right of set-off I have 
outlined above,  I am satisfied the PPI compensation and the loan debt are directly 
connected. 
Having decided there is a close connection,  I then need to think  about whether it would be 
unjust not to allow Tesco to set off in this way.
I have looked  at the offer letter sent to Mr C in May 2018. Immediately above where the offer 
is broken down it says;  As your Personal Loan is currently in arrears we will apply  the 
payment against  the outstanding amount . 
I think this made it clear how Tesco was intending to use the compensation. Mr C knew  
there was a debt on the loan so he would have realised what Tesco  was saying in its offer 
letter.
Mr C has raised  a concern about  his other commitments but has provided no evidence to 
show that he has any priority debts, such as rent, mortgage, tax etc. If this were the case  
then Tesco has said it would pay the compensation to such a debt before the debt he owes 
to Tesco. Tesco has also said that as Mr C brought his complaint through a third party,  if he 
provides the invoice from the third party for its costs, it will pay those costs to the third party  
from the compensation before setting  the rest against Mr Cs debt. 
This is in line with what I would expect when considering if a firm has acted fairly and 
reasonably, as required by the Rules. And I think in this case Tesco has done so.
Mr C was concerned that other businesses have paid compensation to him directly even 
though he owed them debts. He thinks Tesco should do the same, otherwise he says there 
is inconsistency by businesses in applying the Rules  and the law. 
There can be many factors  which affect  what a business does in relation to different 
products. I do not know the facts of the other cases where Mr C was paid compensation. It is 
possible, for example, other businesses had sold the debt Mr C owed to a third party, so no 
longer had a legal interest in his debt and couldnt  set off the compensation. 
Ref: DRN95107763I can only look at the facts on this complaint about the PPI sold with a loan from Tesco. And I 
think what Tesco has offered and indicted  it will do with the compensation is fair and in line 
with the Rules and the law.
Mr C has also raised a point about why Tesco required his signed  acceptance  to set the 
compensation against his debt if they were following the FCA guidance correctly.  As can be 
seen DISP App 3.9.1  states the business  can reduce the debt it is owed with the 
compensation if the complainant accepts the firms  offer of redress.
Mr C didnt accept the offer as he brought it to this service. If he had signed  the acceptance, 
agreeing it in full and final settlement at that time then Tesco would  have automatically  been 
able to set it against the debt. This is why it was required to ask for his signed acceptance.
.
The amount  Mr C still owes on his loan is over £8,800.00. The debt Tesco owes for the PPI 
compensation is just over £3,000.00. I think it is fair for Tesco  to use the compensation 
against this debt on the loan the PPI was directly related to, for the reasons I have set out. 
If Mr C sends Tesco the invoice from the third party  it has said it will still pay that out of the 
compensation. So Mr C should do that as soon as possible and within 28 days of the date of 
this decision so this matter can be finally resolved.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out Im satisfied that what Tesco Personal Finance PLC has offered 
and said it will do with the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI policy is fair. So I am not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint and telling Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do anything 
differently.
If Mr C wishes  to have the third party representatives invoice paid, he should submit  a copy  
of the invoice to Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC as soon as possible and within 28 days of the 
date of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9510776