K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  about the service  she received  from Studio Retail  Limited (SRL) in 
relation to her catalogue shopping  account.
background
Miss K says she became aware  of fraudulent activity on her account in October 2017 and 
she reported the matter to SRL by email. She says she didnt receive  a satisfactory 
response, so she phoned SRLs customer service department and was told someone would 
look into the matter  and she would get a call back.  But, Miss K says a few weeks passed 
and she didnt receive a call back or a letter, so she phoned SRL Again. 
Miss K also says she then received a letter  dated  20 February 2018 from SRL 
acknowledging her complaint and saying it would be in touch with her again within 14 days, 
but this didnt happen. She says she wrote  to SRL about the matter  again on 3 April 2018 
and complained that it had been  reporting  incorrect adverse information  on her credit  file. 
She says she pointed out the serious implications of the matter, both from a work 
perspective and in terms of her personal  circumstances at the time.  And she says she told it 
she shouldnt still be having  to deal with the matter six months after she first raised it.
So, Miss K says she wants SRL to update  her credit file and to compensate  her adequately  
for the delay  in resolving the issue and the distress shes been caused.
SRL says Miss K appears to have  been  the victim of identity theft. It says its now arranged 
for her credit  file to be amended and for her details to be removed from any fraudulent 
financial commitment. And it says it upheld Miss Ks complaint, sincerely apologised for the 
distress and inconvenience shed been  caused and paid her £50 compensation.
During our investigation SRL offered Miss K a further £100  compensation.
Our investigator thought Miss Ks complaint should  be upheld. She said SRL should pay 
Miss K £100 to cover  the fees shed needed to pay to check  her credit  file regularly whilst the 
situation continued. And it should pay her a total of £200 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience shed  experienced, including the £150 it had offered her. 
SRL disagreed with the investigators  conclusions.  So, the matters been  referred  to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Miss K notified SRL about  the fraudulent activity on her account as soon as she 
became aware  of it in October 2017.  I also see there appear to have been a number of 
delays in dealing  with the matter. Its clear Miss K had to chase SRL on several occasions. 
And I see she didnt receive  a formal response  to her complaint until June  2018.
Ref: DRN98438572I also see SRL reported incorrect adverse information on Miss Ks credit file. And I see she 
made it aware of the serious consequences  this could have on her, both from a work 
perspective and in view of her personal  circumstances at the time. 
I think SRL shouldve been much more  proactive  in dealing with this matter when Miss K 
brought the situation to its attention. And Im satisfied she suffered distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of its delays and its reporting of incorrect  adverse information on 
her credit file.
Taking everything Ive seen into account I think its fair and reasonable for me to require SRL 
to pay Miss K a total of £200 compensation, including the £150 its already offered her, for 
the distress and inconvenience  shes experienced as a result of this matter. And to require it 
to pay her a further  £100 to cover the fees she paid to check her credit  file regularly whilst 
the situation continued.
So, I uphold  Miss Ks complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ks complaint against Studio Retail Limited. It must pay her a total of £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shes experienced as a result of this 
matter. And it must pay her a further £100  to cover  the fees she paid to check her credit  file 
regularly whilst the situation continued.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9843857