K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that National Counties  Building Society, trading as Family Business Society 
(FBS) didnt transfer funds between his accounts within the 24 hours  that they said they 
would. He also complains  that they then wrote to him with a final decision on the complaint  
without speaking to him first. 
Mr K would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to him. 
background
On 23 January 2019, Mr K sent FBS a secure message asking them to close his premium 
saver 1 account and transfer everything in it into his premium saver  3 account. 
FBS replied to his message on 24 January 2019 saying that the money  would be transferred 
within 24 hours. 
This wasnt done so Mr K sent another message to FBS on 25 January 2019 lodging  a 
formal complaint.
Mr K sent another message on 26 January 2019  saying that he wanted to make  a formal 
complaint. He also wanted compensation for lost interest  and for FBS wasting his time as he 
had to contact  them  twice. 
FBS replied to Mr Ks message on 28 January 2019  apologising  for not completing the 
transfer. They said that they had now closed the premium saver 1 account  and transferred  
the money in it to the premium saver 3 account. They backdated this so that Mr K didnt lose 
any interest. 
Mr K told FBS on 29 January 2019 that he wished to pursue the complaint. 
FBS confirmed that they had lodged the complaint on 30 January 2019. 
FBS wrote their final response to Mr K on 7 February 2019.  They  accepted that they hadnt 
carried out the transfer within 24 hours. They backdated Mr Ks transfer  date so that he 
didnt lose any interest.  Finally, they offered  him £10 in acknowledgement  of the upset and 
inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with this decision so he came  to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found, in particular, that FBS had:
responded to Mr Ks complaint  within  the timescales set;
had been fair in backdating the transfer so that Mr K didnt lose any interest;
explained that they used the same  channel to issue their final response  letter  as Mr K 
had used to contact them.
Mr K wasnt  happy with this decision.  He thought that FBS shouldve  called him to discuss 
their final response before  sending it to him. He also pointed out that he had contacted FBS 
via secure message and that they had sent their final response by letter.  This wasnt  the 
same channel. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN98384422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr K wont be happy with my decision. I wont  be upholding his complaint. I will 
explain why. 
FBS have  accepted  that they didnt carry out the transfer within the 24 hours that they said 
they would. But, they corrected this error  by making  the transfer and backdating the transfer 
date to the original  request so that Mr K didnt  lose any interest.  I think that this was a fair 
outcome. Mr K, I think, is happy with this. 
Mr K says that he had to contact FBS twice before they carried out the transfer. I can see 
that he did contact  them twice. But, I note that these contacts  were  on consecutive  days and 
one of those days  was a Saturday.  FBS has said that they have limited  staff working on 
Saturdays and that their usual business  hours are from Monday to Friday. They responded 
to Mr K on the following Monday. I dont think that this was an unreasonable delay at all 
especially considering  that the delay didnt leave Mr K suffering a financial loss. 
I think Mr K couldve contacted FBS just once and allowed  them time to respond. Had he 
done this, I think  they wouldve responded on Monday  as they did so there was no need for 
Mr K to contact them again on the Saturday.  I think that the £10 offered by FBS is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with the way his complaint was dealt with and, in particular, with FBS not 
contacting him before  they sent him their letter dated 7 February 2019. I have considered 
this and I dont  think that there was any need for FBS to contact Mr K before sending their 
letter to him. Mr Ks usual  messages to them  were  written.  FBS didnt respond via the same 
channel  the letter was written. But as Mr K generally wrote to them,  I can accept that they 
would think he wouldnt want a call from them. 
I dont think that FBS was being arrogant in not calling Mr K first. I believe that they thought 
that they had done everything that they could  on Mr Ks complaint. It isnt a requirement  for 
FBS to call their customers before they send  them  a letter. I dont think  that they were 
obliged to here either. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr K wanted but I hope that I have  adequately  
explained why Im not upholding  his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require National Counties Building Society to pay Mr K 
compensation of £10 if this hasnt already been done. I dont require National Counties 
Building Society to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Ref: DRN98384423Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9838442