K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc has reduced the interest rate payable  on his current 
account, having previously said that it wouldnt do so. He says the bank should pay him the 
interest he calculates he will lose over the next 20 years. 
background
Mr H had a current account  with TSB, which paid 3% a year interest  on balances up to 
£1,500, subject to certain conditions. In April 2018, following well publicised  computer 
difficulties at the bank, the banks then chief executive announced that it would increase the 
interest rate to 5% a year. It would  do to apologise  to its customers  and to thank  them for 
their loyalty.  Mr H says that the statement included a promise that the higher rate would be 
 there for good He took that to mean it would never be reduced.  The rate increased  on 
1 May 2018.
In or about April 2019, however, Mr H found out that TSB was planning to reduce the rate 
back to 3% a year.  He complained, saying he had made long-term financial plans on the 
strength of what the bank had said a year earlier.
TSBs response was to say that the interest  rate was, and always  had been, variable. But in 
any event, it was only paid to those customers who met certain  conditions;  specifically, they 
had to register for online banking and paperless  statements and pay in at least £500  a 
month. Mr H hadnt done any of these things. 
When Mr H referred  his complaint to us, one of our investigators considered  it, but broadly 
agreed with TSB. Mr H didnt accept  the investigators conclusions,  and so the matters been 
referred to me  as the final stage in our process.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Im broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions,  and for similar reasons.
Ill deal first of all with the comments made by the banks  former chief  executive  in a radio 
interview given shortly before the rate increase. When asked how long the increase would 
be for, he said: That rate doesnt change  and  that rate is there for good. 
Following that, the bank  wrote to all relevant account holders to tell them about the increase. 
The communication included: We promise this wont  be taken away after a year. 
When taken in context,  I dont accept that the chief executives statement in a radio interview 
can properly be taken  as a contractual guarantee to Mr H that, once it had been  increased, 
the interest rate would never be reduced. That would have been inconsistent  with the 
variable interest rate to which Mr H and other customers had agreed to when they opened 
the account. Nor do I believe  that it would have  been  reasonable for Mr H to have made  
long-term financial plans  on the strength of that interview. 
When the bank  confirmed what it was doing, it said that the higher rate would not be 
removed after a year; it says this was to distinguish its offer from those of other banks, which  
frequently offer 12 month deals on savings and other accounts. 
Ref: DRN99993682TSB didnt  take the higher  rate away after a year. It did so at the beginning of July 2019, 14 
months after it had been  introduced. That wasnt inconsistent with what  it had told its 
customers it would do. 
TSB says too that Mr H has never  met the criteria for receiving interest (at any rate) on his 
account. He says he didnt think he needed to sign up for online banking and paperless 
statements because of the reassurances given in the radio interview.  I dont accept that. 
Nothing in that interview  can properly be taken to mean that other  conditions  of receiving 
interest would  be waived, and there was no further communication to suggest that either. I 
note too that, in some months,  Mr H did pay £500  into the account, although credits were  
often accompanied  by debits for the same amount on the same day.
Finally, Mr H says he found out about the change  through  media  coverage,  not by personal 
notification. The bank says it started contacting  account holders about the reduction at the 
beginning of April 2019. But by then Mr H already knew about the change and had 
complained about it; TSB explained the change in its response  to the complaint. For that 
reason, I dont need to make any findings  about any other notification  of the change.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc does  not need to do anything  further  to resolve  Mr Hs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9999368