K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has recorded a default in respect  of his 
personal loan with credit reference agencies (CRAs).
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 4 March 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  Hes also provided  some  additional information 
about the circumstances that gave rise to his complaint which  Ive considered.
HSBC said it didnt  deliberately destroy the recording of Mr Hs telephone call in May 2017. It 
says it retains recorded calls for a period of twelve months and they are then automatically 
deleted. If it had realised  the call recordings  were  going to be required it would have saved  
them.
Apart from the above, HSBC said it agreed with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It wasnt my intention  to suggest  HSBC  had deliberately destroyed the call recording. I fully 
accept HSBCs explanation and Im satisfied the recording  wasnt deliberately deleted.  But 
the recording was relevant  to an ongoing complaint and I think it would have been good  
practice for HSBC to have ensured  the recording was retained until the complaint had been  
finally resolved.
In view of Mr Hs and HSBCs acceptance  of the remainder of my provisional  decision I dont 
intend to depart from it.
Ref: DRN96957432my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
1Remove the default and any other  adverse information about the loan from Mr Hs credit 
file;
2Allow Mr H to make  monthly payments of £272.50 until the loan has been  repaid;  and
3Pay Mr H £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96957433Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mr H has a personal; loan with HSBC. In March  2017 he didnt pay the monthly instalment of £272.50 
that was due to HSBC  in respect of the loan. He contacted HSBC to explain that he was in dispute 
with third parties in relation to his business and this was causing him financial difficulty.
In June 2017  Mr H wrote to HSBC offering to pay £2 per month until his financial circumstances 
changed. In July 2017 HSBC sent Mr H a default notice and in August 2017 it sent him a final 
demand. It then recorded  the default  with CRAs.
Mr H complained to HSBC  saying it had told him his credit  report  wouldnt be affected.  HSBC didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said it had explained to him the affect that missing the payments on his 
personal loan would have  on his credit report.
Mr H wasnt  satisfied with HSBCs response and referred his complaint  to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought HSBC had a duty to 
report correct  information to CRAs and had acted fairly. Mr H didnt agree  with our investigators  
recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The problems Mr H was experiencing in 2017 werent  caused or contributed to by HSBC.  
Nevertheless it had a responsibility to treat him fairly and sympathetically when it became aware he 
was in financial difficulty. Mr H spoke  to HSBC in May 2017  and explained  his situation. He says he 
was told his credit file wouldnt be affected.  HSBC  disputes  this. It says it told him if he continued  to 
miss payments it would put him in default and would  be reported to CRAs.
The HSBC employee who wrote its final response to Mr Hs complaint referred  to the above  telephone 
call and said Ive listened to this call. In order to resolve the different versions  regarding what was 
said during  the call I asked HSBC to provide a copy of the recording.  It says the recording isnt 
available.
The fact that a recording of the call isnt available leads me to conclude either  that the employee who 
wrote the final response hadnt  actually listened to the call or the recording has subsequently been 
destroyed. Either of those  situations is unacceptable and, in the circumstances, I accept Mr Hs 
evidence that he was told his credit file wouldnt be affected.
Im not currently persuaded  that HSBC treated Mr H fairly  and sympathetically after he informed it of 
his temporary financial difficulties. I think HSBC could  have given him more  time to sort out his 
problems before  applying a default to his credit file that would affect his ability to obtain credit for six 
years.
In the circumstances,  I currently  think HSBC should remove the default and any other adverse 
information relating to the loan from Mr Hs credit  file. It should  then allow Mr H to pay monthly  
instalments of £272.50 until the loan has been repaid in full.
I also currently think that HSBC has caused Mr H unnecessary trouble and upset due to its actions.  I 
think it should  pay him £200  to compensate  him for this.
Ref: DRN96957434my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments or evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is I 
would uphold  this complaint. I would require  HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
4Remove the default and any other adverse information  about the loan from Mr Hs credit file;
5Allow Mr H to make monthly payments of £272.50 until the loan has been repaid; and
6Pay Mr H £200.
Ref: DRN9695743