K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a car he is financing  through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) is not of satisfactory quality. Hed like to reject it and 
terminate his finance agreement.
background
Mr G took receipt of a new car in September 2015.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. But he says hes experienced problems with the car, as 
follows:
May 2016 drivetrain problems 
9 June 2016 ignition coils and spark plugs required attention
13 June 2016 ignition coils replaced  
28 June new rocker cover  and three  new injectors required
January 2019 drivetrain. Advised engine would need  to be stripped  to diagnose.
February 2019 inlet manifold, spark plugs and fuel tank repair/  drive  train still faulty
The car has now completed about  47,000  miles but is not driveable  as the drivetrain problem  
persists and an engine  strip down  is necessary  to diagnose whats wrong. Mr G therefore  
complained to BMWFS and wanted  to reject the vehicle. He also asked them  to refund the 
£354.64 he paid to have the car repaired in January 2019. And he was disappointed that 
when an extended  warranty  was offered to him by the dealership  in recognition  of the 
problems he was experiencing, he later discovered it wasnt as comprehensive as the initial  
warranty.
BMWFS said that as the faults  Mr G now complained  of had occurred three  and a half years 
after hed taken  receipt of the car, they were not responsible for them.  So they didnt uphold 
his complaint and Mr G referred  it to this service.
Our adjudicator thought there was evidence the car hadnt been of satisfactory  quality. She 
thought the repairs had been inadequate  and the components had not proven durable. So 
she suggested BMWFS allow Mr G to reject  the car; return his deposit and refund the 
January repair  costs as she thought there was evidence the car hadnt been fixed. She 
thought they should  also refund  four monthly  instalments in respect of the loss of use Mr G 
had experienced with the car and that, in recognition  of the inconvenience this matter had 
caused; they should pay him £200 compensation.
But BMWFS  disagreed.  They didnt  think it was fair to allow  Mr G to terminate his 
agreement with them when the fault he was complaining about had happened  after almost  
four years and they therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN92028112Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But BMWFSs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Wed usually assume that if a car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to 
have been there from the point of supply  but if it happened after that wed usually  look to the 
consumer to prove this was the case. 
But the relevant  legislation also tells us that, when  we consider satisfactory quality, we 
should consider  whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably  durable.  And here I dont think  
that can be the case. Mr G has had to return the car on at least six occasions.  I dont think a 
reasonable person would consider a new vehicle to be sufficiently durable if it had required 
repairs to the drive train; ignition coils; spark plugs;  rocker  cover;  injectors; inlet manifold and 
fuel tank, within the first few years of operation.
So I agree that Mr G should be allowed  to reject the car and have his finance agreement 
terminated. Its usual  in these circumstances for this service to ask the business to refund 
any deposit paid and here that deposit  comprises of a cash deposit and a part exchange 
sum. Im persuaded that the repair Mr G paid for in January 2019 wasnt  successful. I say 
that because I can see BMWFS wrote  to him in February 2019 explaining that. So it would 
be fair for BMWFS to refund those repair costs  too. 
Mr Gs use of the vehicle  has clearly been  impaired. Ive seen  that hes had to take the car to 
several different  repair centres and repairs in early  June 2016 and January 2019  didnt  
resolve the problems  he was complaining  of. In the circumstances  I agree with the 
adjudicators suggestion  that BMWFS should refund four monthly  finance  instalments in 
respect of loss of use.
Mr G has also been inconvenienced  by the problems  hes experienced with the car and 
having considered all of the issues I think BMWFS  should compensate him for this and pay 
him £200.
I note that Mr G has also complained that the extended warranty cover provided to him 
wasnt the same as the original warranty. I dont think I can fairly hold BMWFS responsible  
for any service Mr G received  from the dealership after he arranged  the finance  for his car 
and Im therefore unable to comment further on this issue.
Ref: DRN92028113my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mr G to reject the vehicle and terminate his finance agreement
collect the car at no cost to Mr G
refund  Mr Gs deposit and part exchange allowance totalling £2,800 and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
refund  four monthly finance instalments for impaired use of the vehicle totalling  
£1,000.08
pay Mr G £200  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file as a result  of this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202811