K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL  UK LIMITED (TI) failed to keep  her 
financial information private.
background 
In December Miss K says she was contacted by a relative who said she could see her 
financial information on their credit report. Miss K also says the relative accused her of fraud.  
She checked her credit file and found she was also able to see the relatives financial 
information. 
She contacted TI in February and it discovered  that in 2010  the two sets of financial  
information had become  merged. It rectified the matter within  a few days. TI apologised to 
Miss K and offered her free access to her credit report.
Miss K brought her complaint to this service and said that in October 2018 she had an 
application for a mortgage declined. She thought  this was due the wrong  details being  
included in her report.  Our investigator  recommended the complaint be upheld  and 
suggested Miss K be paid £100  compensation.
She noted Miss K hadnt contact TI immediately she became aware of the issue,  but that 
was due to her not being sure what to do. TI had fixed the problem without delay once  it had 
been brought its attention.  
Miss K had provided an email from a mortgage  broker which stated the lender had declined  
to make a mortgage offer due to credit scoring. It didnt elaborate. Our investigator noted 
Miss Ks credit report had a fair rating  and couldnt say that the error by TI had been the 
cause of the application being declined. She suggested Miss K obtain further details from the 
lender to see if this showed the mistake  had been the cause  of the refusal.
Miss K didnt agree with the investigator  and felt she should receive a larger sum of 
compensation. She also mentioned she had health  issues, but didnt elaborate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss K was upset when she found her financial information  had been 
merged with that of a relative. I gather the two do not have a good relationship and this 
made matters more distressing for Miss K. 
TI accepts there  was an error and has said it receives many millions  of pieces of data and on 
occasions these  are incomplete  and mismatches can happen.  It apologised and rectified the 
matter without delay.  I consider that to have  been  reasonable, but I also think  that Miss K is 
entitled to some compensation.
Mortgages can be declined for any number of reasons and I accept  it is difficult to establish  if 
the cause was due to the mix up of data. In the absence of evidence  to show the refusal was 
due the error  I cannot hold TI responsible  for that. Although I have seen no evidence  of the 
Ref: DRN99771862accusations made by the relative I can accept that the situation was difficult  her Miss K. 
Nobody wants to see their personal financial  details  shared with anybody else.
In summary  I can see that Miss K has suffered some distress, but no financial loss and 
therefore I believe the sum of £100 as suggested by the investigator is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL 
UK LIMITED  to pay Miss K £100  in compensation. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept  or reject my decision before 
7 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9977186