K820x#14complaint
Mr C, through his wife Mrs C, complains that his investment  portfolio  wasnt invested as it 
shouldve been  by Warnes Anderton Ltd (the business)  and that it didnt provide a good  
service. He also complains that the business advised he cashed in a life policy when  it 
shouldnt have.
background
Mr C saw an adviser in 2009 and according to the suitability report I have seen this was to 
review his existing investments and for advise  on a lump sum investment. Although he was 
advised at the same  time as Mrs C they held separate investments and continued to do so 
after the advice.  Mr C is unhappy that he now has only approximately  £6,000  left of his initial  
portfolio.
The business didnt  uphold his complaint. In its final response letter  it said that the portfolio 
of investments recommended by the adviser was suitable  for someone who was a medium  
risk investor such as Mr C who wanted income  and capital growth.
It also said that the adviser discussed  reducing  the income withdrawals with Mr C in 2012  
and 2013 but that he wanted to keep  taking the same level of income. It said that he hadnt 
then responded  to invites to review his investments between 2014  and 2017.
The business also explained that although  the investment  bond  Mr C encashed in 2009 had 
a small amount of life cover this was for tax reasons and the purpose  of the bond wasnt to 
provide life cover.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  the business had done 
anything wrong. He said the advice in 2009  wasnt unsuitable based on Mr Cs objectives 
and circumstances  at the time. He also didnt think the business had done  anything wrong in 
advising the investment  bond be surrendered. He said the life cover  that is part of such 
bonds is simply to make  them qualifying policies for tax purposes.
The investigator also thought that the business  made Mr C aware that the amount he was 
withdrawing from his investments wasnt sustainable.
Mrs C on behalf of Mr C didnt agree with the investigator so the matter has been referred to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are based  on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not. So I am not saying what definitely did or didnt 
happen or that it isnt possible that the business got things wrong. But on the evidence I 
have seen Im not persuaded  that it did.
The suitability report I have seen  dated 2 April 2009 sets out what the adviser discussed with 
Mr C. This shows that he didnt want a full financial  review but only a review of existing 
investments and advice  on investing  a lump sum. 
Ref: DRN99022352The adviser recommended he move  existing investments into the Transact Platform to 
simplify his investments and which also allowed him to take a more active  role in the future 
management of the investments.. He also advised they transfer the existing Cash  ISA 
accounts to a Stocks and Shares ISA account.
Mr C was identified as being a medium risk investor  and his objective was for his 
investments to provide both income and capital growth. I have  seen nothing  to suggest that 
the original advice and portfolio was unsuitable  based on the risk Mr C was prepared to take 
and what he wanted  from his investments.
In May 2012  the adviser met with Mr C to review  his investments. The meeting note I have 
seen states:
(Mr C) has a concern that he is drawing  a very large percentage of his portfolio as income  
and I suggested  income  portfolio would help counteract  this by targeting higher levels  of 
dividend income.  We agreed  to rebalance  his portfolio only into income portfolio. I did 
suggest lowering  the level of income  but he said at present he did not want to do this for the 
time being and we will review this situation  again next year. 
Following the meeting  a financial planning report was prepared by the adviser. This recorded 
that Mr C was currently taking £8,400  a year out of his investments and that this was 28% of 
the current value  but that he didnt want to reduce the level of income  he was taking from his 
investments and would  review this the following year. Mr C signed to say he had received 
the report and agreed  the recommendations.
I note it is suggested  that the adviser concentrated the portfolio on income rather  than 
income and capital which appears  to be a reference to what happened in 2012.  But given 
the substantial  amounts  Mr C was taking from the portfolio I dont think the advice to 
rebalance the portfolio so it was an income  portfolio was unsuitable.
The adviser met with Mr C again  at their home in 2013 to review his investments. The 
advisers note of the meeting states:
(Mr Cs) portfolio is actually performing well with solid capital growth and excellent yield but I 
have major concerns  that (he) is drawing a very large percentage of his portfolio as income  
and that these funds will run out in a very short period. Drawing over 20% of the funds on an 
annual basis  is not sustainable and I pointed this out to (him). He accepted what I was 
saying but still wishes to continue with the same level of withdrawals. 
From what  I have  seen there  were  no further  annual reviews involving Mr C after 2013.  But I 
have seen letters from the business  referring to the need for review and enclosing up to date 
valuations for the portfolio between 2014 and 2017. These letters  gave Mr C the option of 
self-assessing for his current  attitude  to risk and also options for; not participating in a 
review; taking part with a meeting; or taking  part with no meeting.
I have seen no evidence  Mr C responded to these review letters,  or to the chaser  letters sent 
afterwards such as one dated 13 November 2015  in which the adviser stated:
Further to my recent letter as expressed  I shall now file my papers and assume  that you do 
not want to participate  in this years review. We are unable to offer updated advice or 
guidance at this time as we have not been  able to update my information surrounding your 
Ref: DRN99022353circumstances. I can only urge you participate  in our reviews to ensure value and relevance 
are retained.
I think this made it very clear that the reviews couldnt go ahead without Mr Cs involvement 
and that the adviser couldnt  provide advice or guidance without this. 
The business brought the relationship to an end in 2017 after it wrote to Mr C about that 
years annual review and asked for completion  of the review  paperwork. This appears to 
have led to a telephone  conversation after which the business wrote to Mr C about  no longer 
acting for him.
I have also seen other correspondence  and documents over the period of time the business 
acted for Mr C in relation  to specific issues about his investments such  as when it needed to 
encash some of his holdings  to provide the income  he wanted.
I have seen no evidence  that indicates  that the business didnt provide the service it 
shouldve done  based on what it had agreed to do for Mr C. It is clear that it did carry out 
annual reviews but wasnt able to do this between 2014 and 2017 because Mr C didnt 
respond when  contacted  about reviews.
Mr C has complained because there  is now very little left in his portfolio. But it is clear that 
this is because of the very significant  amounts he was withdrawing  from his portfolio every 
year. The documents I have seen from 2012  and 2013 make it very clear  that the adviser 
discussed this with him and suggested he limit his withdrawals but that Mr C chose  not to do 
so. 
Even if the adviser  had said nothing about this I think it shouldve been  obvious to Mr C that 
taking so much from his portfolio year on year inevitably meant his portfolio would reduce 
significantly in value.  In short  the cause of him having so little in his portfolio now is him 
taking so much out of it between 2009  and 2017.  It has nothing to do with the adviser having 
done something wrong with his portfolio.
Mr C has also referred  to a life policy he says the business shouldnt have cashed in. From 
what I have seen this refers to an investment bond. This is an investment not a life policy. 
Although it has some  life cover for tax reasons  its purpose isnt to provide life cover and the 
amount of cover provided is usually very small.  In the circumstances I dont think  the 
business did anything  wrong in recommending the bond be cashed  in.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9902235