K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (T/A More Than) 
handled and settled a claim he made under his home insurance  policy  following an escape 
of water.  
background
In early March 2018 Mr E made a claim under  his More Than home  insurance  policy  after his 
house suffered  extensive damage following an escape of water from the attic. Mr and Mrs E 
were on holiday at the time. But his son discovered burst  water  pipes on visiting  the 
property. 
In addition to water causing damage to the attic the bathroom, three  bedrooms,  the stairs,  
landing, hallway, toilet, lounge, kitchen and dining  room also sustained  significant water 
damage. More  Than instructed a loss adjuster, which Ill refer to as R in this decision,  to 
inspect the damage  sustained  to Mr Es property and scope the repair  works.
R inspected Mr Es home on 8 March  2018  and arrangements were made to start the drying 
out process. But this process wasnt completed until 3 August 2018. During that time More 
Than inspected Mr Es property to monitor the drying process. And it consulted a secondary  
company for advice  given the length of time it was taking for the property to dry out. This 
company advised  that a different drying technique should have been used. After  the drying 
process was complete  the building work wasnt approved until early  October 2018. More  
Than said this delay was caused because it was awaiting costs from its contractors. 
As Mr Es house was uninhabitable  due to the damage it had sustained  he and his wife 
initially stayed with relatives and afterwards in a hotel. He said the hotel  wasnt  suitable for 
their needs  and when, he discussed his accommodation requirements  with the loss adjuster, 
they suggested he find his own rented accommodation for the duration of the remedial  
works. 
Mr E said the loss adjuster didnt provide guidance  on timescale or budget.  And, as he 
expected to be away from his property for about  three months while it was drying out, he 
rented a small bungalow on a short-term unfurnished  basis  from early April 2018.  However,  
he later extended that rental agreement until September 2018.  
In around August 2018 Mr E told the loss adjuster that this property  wasnt  suitable. He said 
they would  need alternative accommodation. But he experienced difficulties in finding  a 
suitable property  at short notice. They moved into a different property on 3 September  2018.
During the time that Mr E was living in alternative  accommodation his home was broken into 
two to three  times as it was unoccupied. Items belonging  to him were  stolen  and he said his 
wifes health was also adversely affected  by what was happening. 
On 3 September 2018 Mr E complained  to More Than. He wasnt  happy with how long it was 
taking for his home to be repaired.  And he felt he should have been given better  advice and 
assistance in finding alternative accommodation. 
More Than  accepted there had been  delays in completing the remedial works and that it 
could have done more to assist him in finding alternative accommodation. More Than paid 
Mr E £700  compensation. It also reimbursed him £200 for the excess  payments he had paid 
Ref: DRN92158022after making two claims for theft that had occurred when his home was broken into whilst 
being repaired.  
Unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. However, our investigator 
didnt uphold  it. She agreed with More Thans  outcome and thought  the compensation it had 
paid was fair and reasonable.  But Mr E disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to review  his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr E experienced here and particularly his wifes  ill 
health. More Than  accepted that it caused delays and could have handled  Mr Es claim 
better. And its made a goodwill payment,  which it feels recognises the delays Mr E 
experienced between March and October  2018   the date the repair work commenced. So, 
the issue here is whether its acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right for 
Mr E. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides.
I understand that Mr E has raised  a number of separate complaints regarding additional 
problems he experienced while More Than was handling his claim. As these are yet to be 
resolved by More  Than I wont be commenting on them within  this final decision.
Mr Es son reported the escape of water to More Than on 5 March 2018. An inspection took 
place three  days later and arrangements were made to start the drying out process  at 
around this time. This satisfies me that More Than dealt with the initial stages of Mr E 
promptly and as Id expect it to.
Mr Es property  took five months to dry. This was longer than both More  Than and Mr E 
anticipated. More  Than  was advised  by a secondary  company  that a different approach  to 
the drying should be taken.  I think More Than monitored the drying  out process and tried to 
get things moving  when  delays occurred.
I understand that Mr E thinks he should have  been given a more  realistic estimate of how 
long it would have  taken More Than to complete the repairs  to his property. However, the 
reports show that the water damage was extensive  and I dont  think More Than could have 
easily predicted the total time it would have  taken to complete work. I also think  the fact that 
More Than  took advice  from a secondary  company shows there were complexities to the 
drying process that it hadnt anticipated. 
In such circumstances,  I dont think it would be reasonable  for me to conclude  that More  
Than should have  known  it would have taken 12 months to finalise the repairs to Mr Es 
house.
More Than  accepts there were delays after the drying process was complete. The building 
work wasnt approved  until early  October 2018. More Than said this delay was caused  
because it was awaiting costs from its contractors. But I think  this delay was avoidable and 
could have been minimised had More Than chased its contractors more. 
I recognise that a delay  of two months  is likely  to have been significant  to Mr and Mrs E 
given the upheaval they were experiencing while living in alternative accommodation. And 
Ref: DRN92158023its also likely to have caused them  additional  inconvenience and frustration. But, as our 
investigator has explained, we arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id 
have asked More  Than  to make an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused.
I understand this situation was very distressing for Mr E. But claims for an escape  of water 
can be complex and tend to take several  months to resolve. It is inherent with such  a claim 
that there  will be stress and considerable inconvenience. Our role is to consider whether this 
was avoidable  and to assess fair compensation for failing as a whole. 
In this case its clear the service from More Than could  have been  better  and that it had a 
significant impact on Mr E. But on balance, Im satisfied that the compensation More Thans 
already paid fairly reflects the trouble and upset he was caused between  March and October 
2018. Our investigator  has said its in line with what she would have suggested had no offer 
been made, and I agree.  So, I wont be requiring More Than to increase the amount its 
already paid. 
Ill turn now to the part of Mr Es complaint that concerns the standard of accommodation he 
lived in while he home was being  repaired.  Under  the terms of his insurance policy hes 
entitled to temporary  accommodation if his house is uninhabitable.  Those terms go on to 
state that where temporary accommodation  is provided More Than will pay the additional 
cost of similar short-term accommodation. 
Mr E signed  rental agreements on the properties  he chose. I appreciate his comments  that 
he would  have searched for more suitable  properties, which  were more  in keeping  with his 
house, had he known the length of time his repairs would take. But Ive already outlined why 
I dont think it was possible for More Than to foresee the drying difficulties that were 
experienced here.
More Than  has seen photographs of the properties Mr E rented. While theyre smaller in size 
to his property  it says it would have homed them in similar accommodation  had it sourced 
alternative accommodation itself. As Mr E found  these properties  himself it would be unfair  
for me to criticise More Than  for a choice  it didnt make. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr E incurred a financial cost while staying in alternative 
accommodation, which More Than  hasnt reimbursed.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E 
suffered distress and inconvenience while living elsewhere. And this was exacerbated 
because he had to find alternative accommodation  himself. But I think  the amount of 
compensation More  Than has already paid reflects that.
I appreciate that Mr E feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint  and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. While I appreciate the reasons why he brought  his 
complaint to our service Im satisfied that More Than has acted fairly and reasonably in 
relation to the service he received between March and October  2018.  So, Im not going ask it 
to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Ref: DRN92158024Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9215802