K820x#14complaint
Ms D says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Ms D took out a PPI policy with a loan in 2000. Ms D paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly 
premium, which  didnt  attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.  
Ive decided that Ms Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
The credit agreement had a section for PPI. It set out the cost of the policy separately to the 
cost of the loan itself,  rather than as something  than was necessarily included. There  was a 
box Ms D could sign if she wanted  PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The 
agreement reiterated  in capital letters that she should only sign there if she wanted  cover.  
Ms D signed  specifically for PPI, separately  to signing for the agreement as a whole. So 
I think that FICL made  Ms D aware  she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms D, so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. It did 
have to give Ms D clear information about  the PPI.
The cost of the policy was clearly shown  on the agreement, so I think Ms D wouldve 
understood how much she would  need  to pay for it. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Lastly, its possible that FICL didnt point out the main things the policy  wouldnt cover. But 
Ms D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9678246