K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage 
in 1989. The policy covered Mr S only. It covered him if he was unable  to work because  of 
an accident or sickness or if he lost his job. In the event of a successful claim the policy  
would have paid out for up to 24 months.  The policy  cost £10 per month, and in the event of 
a successful claim the monthly  benefit was £250.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide all of the paperwork  from the sale in 1989. But as the 
sale of this policy happened 30 years ago, this isnt surprising. But it has managed to provide  
some of the paperwork  including  the mortgage  application and separate PPI application 
that Mr and Mrs S completed  and signed.  
The mortgage application has a section for Mortgage Payments Protector  (PPI). It broadly 
summarises that PPI provides cover in the event of an accident, sickness  or unemployment.  
It also states, If you wish to join the Scheme  enter  the amount of monthly benefit you 
require. And there  is a box next to this where an amount of £250 has been entered.  I think  
the wording clearly shows the PPI was optional and if Mr and Mrs S didnt  want the 
insurance, they could  have  left the box empty.
Mr S also completed and signed  a separate PPI application. This was only completed by 
Mr S  so it seems  to me that Mr and Mrs S were aware  of the policy  and chose for Mr S to 
be covered only. 
All things  considered I think Halifax presented  the PPI as an optional  product and it was 
added with Mr and Mrs Ss consent  and with the policy to be in Mr Ss name only.
I think its likely Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. And from the information 
they have given us about their circumstances, it seems to have been right for them  at the 
time. 
A mortgage is a large financial commitment and the consequences of missing  repayments 
are very serious, so I think its possible Mr and Mrs S would have thought the cover useful.
Ref: DRN99217592In the event of a successful claim the PPI would have covered  the mortgage  repayments if 
Mr S was unable to work because of an accident  or sickness or if he lost his job. The PPI 
would have paid out for up to 24 months  per claim. So I think it provided a useful benefit if 
Mr S was unable to work for a lengthy period. And I cant fairly say that the advisers 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable given  the benefit it provided. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said, but for the reasons given above these 
points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9921759