K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account  by insisting that they took the account  to get a mortgage. They paid a monthly 
fee for the account and received several  potential benefits in return,  but they say they didnt 
want or need these  benefits. They think that HSBC should refund them  all the fees they paid 
for the account,  plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and didnt  think 
that HSBC had mis-sold  the packaged  bank account to them. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with 
adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So it has come to 
me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr and Mrs Hs case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr and Mrs H and HSBC  have told us or sent us about the case  
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H already  banked with HSBC when it sold them  the packaged bank account. 
They had held a fee-free account for several  years,  but switched to the packaged account in 
2008. They  changed back to a fee-free  account when they complained  to HSBC during 2018
Mr and Mrs H have told us that in 2008  they went into their local branch of HSBC  to discuss  
taking a mortgage, but that during the meeting HSBC only offered them  one type of 
mortgage and told them that to access  that mortgage (they) needed to open (the packaged 
account). Theyve said that HSBC  didnt offer them any alternative mortgages but told them 
that with the packaged  account they would get a better interest rate for the mortgage.  They  
dont consider that HSBC gave them enough  information  on the day to make an informed 
choice.
HSBC has agreed that it sold the packaged account to Mr and Mrs H alongside  their 
mortgage, but it thinks that it did so fairly.  It has said that it told them  about the costs and 
potential benefits  of the account and gave them the choice to buy it or to keep their fee-free  
account. 
Around ten years have  passed since HSBC sold the account to Mr and Mrs H and not 
surprisingly neither  party has been able to send  us formal records  from the time to show 
exactly what happened. So I cant tell for sure what HSBC did or said.  Instead, Ive 
considered whats  most  likely to have  happened, based  on the evidence I have available. 
Its not in dispute  that in 2008  the account  that HSBC sold to Mr and Mrs H allowed them  to 
get a better interest rate on their mortgage than HSBC would have provided if they had kept 
the fee-free account.  This was one of the potential benefits of the account and HSBC  was 
allowed to make linked offers  like this to its customers providing it explained them  clearly.  
Ref: DRN91474862From what  both parties have said, Im satisfied that HSBC told Mr and Mrs H about the 
better interest rate and I think  it probably  also told them about some  of the other potential 
benefits of the account, such as free travel insurance and fee-free cash  withdrawals if they 
went abroad. I also think its highly likely that HSBC  told Mr and Mrs H how much  the 
account would cost. So the critical part of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is whether HSBC gave 
them a choice about keeping their fee-free  account or switching to the packaged account. 
 
When HSBC was considering lending a mortgage to Mr and Mrs H, as part of its lending 
criteria, it needed  to weigh up several  factors, such as their income, the size of the loan they 
wanted and the value  of the house they were  buying. I dont have many  details  about  the 
mortgage itself,  but there are several possibilities which are relevant here. 
Its possible that despite the fee Mr and Mrs H paid for the packaged account, the reduced 
interest rate they paid for their mortgage  would have made them better  off than staying with 
a fee-free account and paying  more interest;  its possible  that they paid more  with the 
packaged account than they would have with a fee-free account and a more costly 
mortgage; and its also possible  that there was little difference  between  the total cost of 
either case. 
Buying a mortgage is usually a significant  financial event and most people  consider how 
much they will have  to pay quite carefully. At the time, HSBC  offered several  different  types  
of mortgage, as did its competitors. It seems  unlikely to me that HSBC would only have 
discussed a single option with Mr and Mrs H unless  it was the only one that met its lending 
criteria. I think its more  likely that HSBC would have told them  about  several  options,  
including those that only came with its packaged bank account at the same  time it told them 
about the accounts other potential benefits.  And I think it would have given  them a choice 
about this.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H travelled abroad from time-to-time  and so may well have found 
the travel  insurance  benefit that came  with the account potentially attractive and useful, 
alongside the better mortgage interest rate. These  factors may have led them  to decide  to 
take it. I accept that Mr and Mrs H may not remember all these details, but I think  its unlikely 
that HSBC denied them the option to keep the fee-free account, albeit without the particular 
mortgage they took. 
In correspondence,  Mr and Mrs H have  told us that they had alternatives for some  of the 
benefits that came with the packaged account,  such as a different account which also gave 
them fee-free cash withdrawals abroad. I accept this may well have been the case;  but 
HSBC did not tailor its packaged bank accounts for individual  customers,  and even though 
Mr and Mrs H had these alternatives and may not have wanted or needed all of the 
packaged bank  accounts potential benefits,  it doesnt mean that HSBC  treated hem unfairly. 
I dont think that HSBC mis-sold the packaged bank account to Mr and Mrs H. 
Ref: DRN91474863my final decision
For the reasons  I have  sent out above,  I am not upholding  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about  
HSBC UK Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 January 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9147486