K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC charged interest after it failed to correctly  
allocate payments  he made towards  a credit card debt. Mr B also complains about  the 
information Tesco gave  him when he raised concerns about what  had happened.  
Background
Mr B had a 0% credit card with Tesco and the rate was due to end on 9 August 2018. 
On 8 August  2018 Mr B made a payment to reduce the outstanding balance  to avoid paying 
interest. But he was subsequently  charged  £21.42 in interest  by Tesco. 
Mr B says there were  problems when he called Tesco and that he had to wait a long time 
before he spoke with someone.  Hes told us the call was cut off which meant he had to ring 
back. The call handlers he spoke with werent able to say what had gone wrong and didnt 
immediately agree Tesco had made a mistake. A short time later Tesco contacted  Mr B 
again and confirmed it had made a systems error  and charged interest when it shouldnt 
have. Tesco said it would  refund the interest  Mr B had been charged  and paid him £50. 
Tesco issued its final response on 24 October 2018 but it contained a mistake. The final 
response said accounts with the highest  balance would be repaid first. But the credit  card 
terms say the accounts attracting the highest  rates of interest will be repaid first. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed that Tesco  had made  a mistake and didnt think the £50 it had paid was 
enough. She asked  Tesco  to increase the settlement and it agreed to pay Mr B £150 to 
resolve the complaint. But Mr B didnt accept  and asked to appeal. He said that he had spent 
lots of time on the phone  and dealing with Tesco because of its mistakes and didnt think  the 
proposed settlement reflected  that. As Mr B asked to appeal his complaint  has been passed  
to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Bs calls and reviewed  his social media communications with Tesco. I 
agree it incorrectly charged him interest  when it shouldnt have. And I agree that the final 
response incorrectly explained the nature of Tescos error. Tesco has refunded the 
additional interest Mr B was charged (including a further £1.04  the investigator raised) so 
there isnt a financial loss. I need to decide  whether  the existing  offer reasonably reflects the 
impact of Tescos mistake  on Mr B. 
Within the complaint form Mr B says Tesco is guilty of deception and unethical  behaviour.  
But I dont think Tesco has tried to deceive Mr B. I think Tesco had a systems error that 
meant interest was incorrectly  applied  to Mr Bs credit card. Unfortunately,  the person who 
wrote to Mr B in response to his complaint made another mistake when they incorrectly  
explained how payments and interest are applied  to the credit card. Whilst there  were  clear 
errors, Im satisfied they were genuine mistakes.  
Ref: DRN92625772Mr B has also complained that the people he initially spoke to couldnt say what had gone 
wrong. But there was a technical system related reason interest was incorrectly charged and 
I dont think the cause would have been immediately apparent to the staff members Mr B 
spoke with. Mr B was able to raise a complaint and after Tesco  had a chance to investigate  
the nature  of its error  was discovered. Tesco then took steps to refund the interest it 
incorrectly charged. I think thats reasonable. 
Mr B has raised concerns that it took too long to get answers and that, when a final response  
was issued, the information  it contained was wrong. Tesco responded to Mr Bs complaint 
within the time limits set out in the rules and I havent found Mr B has been unreasonably 
delayed after querying the interest  it charged him. As Ive said above, the response did 
contain mistakes but it also told Mr B he could bring  his concerns to our service  if he 
remained dissatisfied which is what he went on to do. 
Mr B has given  us a lot of detail setting out how the issue impacted him. I can see he made  
calls to Tesco and dealt  with it via social media too. Its clear Mr B was frustrated in his 
dealings with Tesco and I agree the situation  should  have  been  much simpler to resolve.  
The service  Tesco provided  to Mr B was poor.  Ive taken everything Mr B has told us about 
the problems he experienced and how they affected  him. Tesco  has agreed to pay Mr B 
£150. Whilst I understand my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr B, I agree with 
the investigator that £150 fairly reflects the impact of Tescos error.  As Tesco  has refunded  
all the additional  interest Mr B was charged and agreed to pay £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience its errors caused, which I think  is fair, Im not telling it to increase 
the award of take any other  action.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance  PLC to pay 
Mr B a total of £150 (less any compensation already  paid).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9262577