K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Sainsburys Bank Plc delayed responding to his claim under section  75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75) regarding  a car he acquired  using his Sainsburys 
credit card. 
background
Mr C acquired  a used car on 28 April 2018  and paid for it with his Sainsburys credit  card.  He 
says he initially experienced an issue with the air conditioning, which  was repaired but 
issues returned. 
On 26 September  2018, the engine  failed. Mr C says that the dealer accepted the engine 
needed to be replaced and said that if the manufacturer didnt cover the cost of this then the 
repair would take place under warranty. Mr C contacted Sainsbury to raise a complaint 
under s.75.
Mr C says that he had to chase Sainsbury  for a response and faced delays while trying to 
get his claim dealt with. He says he wasnt helped through the process  of the s. 75 claim and 
that his claim was rejected without a clear  explanation. 
After Sainsbury  rejected  his s. 75 claim Mr C says he authorised the engine  replacement, 
which was carried out at the cost of the manufacturer. He says the car was returned on 22 
January 2019.  However after this repair further issues arose.  A crack in the engine was 
found and a further repair was required.   
Mr C wants a full refund for the amount he spent on the car as he says there was a breach  in 
contract due to it not being of satisfactory quality.
Sainsbury says that Mr C contacted it in October  2018, asking to reject  his car, and then 
subsequently raised a complaint about  its lack of response. It says that the dealer provided 
evidence that the engine  was checked before sale, which meant there  was no inherent  fault.  
It says that an offer of repair had been made  and it was right to reject Mr Cs s.75 claim. In 
its final response it did accept that there had been  delays  in dealing with Mr Cs concerns 
and said that it would  credit his account with £100  because of this. 
It says the engine was repaired after it had rejected Mr Cs claim, and so couldnt offer any 
comments in regard  to this. And that it should now be allowed to investigate this new claim.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that a repair had been carried  out but this 
wasnt successful and so Mr C should  be allowed to reject the car. He also recommended 
that Mr C be refunded his payments, less an amount for fair usage, and that he be 
compensated £200 (additional to the £100 already  offered) for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr C reiterated that the car was off the road between 26 September 2018 and 22 January 
2019 and needed further repairs after this. He says he covered around  7,300 miles in over a 
year. He thought a capping of the amount he paid to 10% of the purchase price  was 
reasonable, as he was concerned that due to the delays in dealing with his claim the cars 
value had depreciated.
Ref: DRN90488382Sainsbury didnt  accept our investigators  view. It said it had been  right to decline Mr Cs s.75 
claim as at that time there had been  no breach of contract or misrepresentation. It said that 
following this a repair was undertaken that failed, which suggested Mr C could now have a 
valid s. 75 claim. But it said that this is a second claim hasnt been raised with it and so it 
should have the opportunity to consider and investigate it.
Sainsbury also questioned how the redress had been arrived at and why the amount Mr C 
should pay had been suggested  as 10%.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I take relevant  regulations and guidance into consideration, but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable  given the unique  circumstances of the complaint.
Mr C bought a used car using his credit card. Under  the regulations, Sainsbury can be held 
liable under s. 75 if there is a breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
In this case the engine failed five months  after acquisition. I note the comments made about 
checks carried out before sale,  however given when  the engine failed I find it more likely 
than not that the issue with the engine was either present or developing at the point  of 
supply. This conclusion is supported by the manufacturer agreeing  to undertake  the engine 
repair. Based on this, I find I more likely than not that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply  and so a breach of contract occurred.
In circumstances  such as this a repair can be a reasonable remedy.  As this had been 
offered I do not find it unreasonable  that Sainsbury  noted this. But I do think that Sainsbury 
could have helped  Mr C more in regard to his s. 75 claim, as I think  he would have had the 
repair undertaken sooner had it been  explained  that this was a reasonable remedy.
However, the claim was rejected and only then the repair  took place. Unfortunately,  further  
issues arose and another repair was required.
I note that the car has now been repaired, and Mr C accepted this. However  I think that had 
he been made aware of his rights to reject he would have done  this before the second 
repair. Mr C has also been clear that he wasnt satisfied with the car given the issues  and 
that he wanted a refund.
Sainsbury has noted that the repair wasnt successful and that this could suggest  a s. 75 
claim could  now be successful but says it wants an opportunity to investigate this first. While  
I appreciate the points  that have been made,  I do not think this issue  is a second, new,  
complaint. Mr Cs car experienced engine failure within the first six months and the repair 
undertaken for that wasnt  successful. While I appreciate the repair  took place after 
Sainsbury declined  the 75 claim, Im satisfied the failed repair is linked to the original 
complaint, and I think it fair that it is considered as one complaint.
Based on the above, I uphold this complaint and think that Mr C should be allowed to reject  
the car. 
Ref: DRN90488383Mr C paid for the car using his credit  card.  He paid £8,295. The engine  failed after five 
months of use. While the car was returned  in January 2019, further issues arose and further 
repairs were required.  Mr C has said that he has been able to drive just under 7,300 miles.
Along with rejecting the car, I think Mr C should be refunded the amount he paid less an 
amount for the usage he benefited from. Our investigator suggested he should pay 10% of 
the purchase price  for his usage. Sainsbury  questioned this, saying that the average modern 
car lasts for 150,000 miles, and Mr C's car had been driven  70,000 miles at acquisition.
Taking the comments from Sainsbury into account, this would suggest  the car had 80,000 
left and as Mr C was only able to drive  less than 10% of these, I agree it would be 
reasonable that he isnt required to pay more than 10% of the price.
Overall, I think a refund less 10% for usage is reasonable. I also think  that the refund (less  
the usage deduction) should be subject to interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
I understand that Mr C also enquired about  a refund for his tax and insurance. While I note 
our investigators comments about  these  being  the standard  costs of owning any car, I also 
note that Mr C was unable to use of the car for an extended period while  his s. 75 claim was 
being looked into. Because  of this, I think it fair that these costs are refunded for the period 
from September to January when the car was not able to be used  (invoices have been 
provided).
Mr C has provided further information  about  these costs explaining that after the engine 
failure he swapped  his insurance  to a different car for an additional cost. He has also 
explained that he received a partial refund  for road tax. Therefore I would  expect Mr C to be 
refunded the insurance and tax costs  he incurred while the car was not in use less any 
refunds. I would also expect the cost of switching  the insurance  to be included in the refund.
Mr C has been caused distress and inconvenience while he has been dealing with his s. 75 
claim. He has received  £100, but I agree with our investigator that a further £200 should  now 
be paid. I say this because of the delays and the lack of assistance Mr C received while  
trying to deal with his s. 75 claim.
Ref: DRN90488384my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters Sainsburys Bank Plc 
should:
1.allow Mr C to reject the car and Sainsbury to collect it at no cost to him;
2.refund  the amount paid for the car, minus  10% for the usage Mr C had;
3.refund  Mr Cs insurance and tax costs for the period from September  to January 
when the car was not able to be used (invoices  have been provided).
4.pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has been 
caused.
Items 2 and 3 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Sainsburys Bank Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048838