K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax pressured them into 
taking out a protection plan as part of their mortgage, when they didnt want  this.
background
In 1996, Mr and Mrs S were buying  their home under the Right-to-Buy scheme. They applied 
for a repayment mortgage with Halifax, and the adviser recommended that they should  also 
start a joint life decreasing term assurance  policy to match their borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs S maintained this policy and the premium payments until 2015.
In 2018, they complained that theyd been pressured into taking it. They  felt theyd just done 
what the adviser had told them they needed  to do so they would get their mortgage.  But 
theyd said all they wanted was the repayment mortgage itself.
Halifax said that the advice Mr and Mrs S received  was appropriate for them. It said the 
policy matched the details  of their mortgage and theyd been given information about  it so 
they could understand it. Halifax said it hadnt been a condition of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage, 
and they couldve  cancelled it if they changed  their mind or no longer wanted the cover.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He 
thought it was suitable for Mr and Mrs S as only Mr S was receiving income  at the time and 
so Mrs S would have no means of meeting the mortgage payments if he had passed away,  
and it wouldve meant the mortgage wouldve been paid off if either of them had died. The 
adjudicator said this type of policy was the most  cost effective way to protect a repayment  
mortgage. He said the details from the time showed that different types of cover were  
discussed so he was satisfied Mr and Mrs S were given alternatives. Although he thought  it 
was likely the adviser wouldve explained the benefits of having this cover,  he said it wasnt a 
requirement of the mortgage and Mr and Mrs S were given the right to cancel it.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept the adjudicators findings  and asked  for their complaint to be 
reviewed. They said the policy hadnt  been discussed; it was just put on the mortgage. Mr S 
said he had cover from his employer and his pension covered both of them.  They said the 
policy wasnt decreasing  as it was the same each month and they werent  shown a copy of 
the documents completed at the time of the sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that there has been some initial confusion about the type of protection  plan Mr and 
Mrs S had, which caused a delay  in the complaint being fully addressed  and Mr and Mrs S 
needing to provide details  about  their plan. Halifax seemed to have  understood that they 
were complaining about a form of mortgage payment protection insurance when its records 
showed that Mr and Mrs S didnt  have this.
Ref: DRN90534092Their mortgage  cover plan gave them joint decreasing  term assurance   a policy that would 
pay out a lump sum if one of them passed away while it was in place. The decreasing part 
was the cover it gave  them, as this gradually went down over the term in line with the capital 
they owed on their repayment  mortgage. This was factored in to how their premiums  were 
calculated from the start so they would be the same amount each month while  the policy  
was in place.
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs S dont recall seeing  or being shown some of the 
documentation from the time they were sold this policy. However,  Ive read through  the 
mortgage application form which details their personal and financial information along  with 
that of their home. Mr and Mrs S have both signed  this form to confirm  the details in it were 
correct.
Mr and Mrs S were  noted as being  first-time buyers having been  tenants of their home  for 
some years. At the time, their shared income was made up of Mr Ss incapacity benefit and 
Mrs S wasnt  working. It doesnt  show that they were  entitled to or had any form of existing 
provision for life cover and neither was part of an employers pension  scheme, although  Mr S 
had private pension arrangements.
Looking at their particular circumstances, I dont think it was an unreasonable  
recommendation for them to look to protect  their ability to meet  their joint commitment  of this 
mortgage if one of them was to have  passed away, particularly as they were  reliant on 
Mr Ss income to meet the mortgage  repayments.
The interview summary, which Mr and Mrs S also signed, suggests that different types of 
mortgage repayment were discussed but that they wanted to see the mortgage debt 
reducing. Other forms of protection such as waiver of premium  and critical illness cover were  
also noted as being discussed  but they werent accepted as Mr and Mrs S wanted to keep 
costs to a minimum. I think this shows that options  for both the mortgage and protection  
were talked about, and that Mr and Mrs S chose not to accept those they didnt feel matched 
what they wanted.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S dont recall  the policy  being  discussed, and have said it was 
just put onto their mortgage. However,  Halifax has told us that having this type of policy  
wasnt a condition of the lending to Mr and Mrs S. From what  Ive seen, the direct debit 
payment for the term assurance was separate to that of their mortgage repayments. And Mr 
and Mrs S completed a separate  application  form for the life cover where they answered 
questions relating to their health. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mr and Mrs S were pressured into having 
this particular policy and I think it was a reasonable recommendation for their circumstances 
at the time.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019. 
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053409