K820x#14complaint
Mrs B, through her representative,  says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow), lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Mrs B had one loan with cash4unow in November 2017. The loan was for £500, repayable in 
six instalments of around £137. The loan was repaid  at the end of February 2018.
An adjudicator considered  Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs Bs 
representative disagreed. He thought the adjudicator hadnt looked at the whole picture. He 
also said cash4unow hadnt properly assessed  Mrs Bs application, or properly taken into 
account her existing debt.  As no agreement was reached,  the complaint was passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Id like to start by saying  I understand  why Mrs Bs representative didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view. From what  hes said, Mrs Bs financial circumstances have caused her a 
great deal of stress  and Im sorry to hear this. But having considered all the factors in 
Mrs Bs complaint against cash4unow, Im not able to fairly uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Ive said,  cash4unow was required  to carry out proportionate checks before lending.  
And I think it did carry out proportionate  checks before lending  to Mrs B. It asked Mrs B 
about her income  and also for a reasonably  detailed breakdown of her monthly  expenditure 
 which  included details  of regular loans, credit  cards and payday loans. Mrs B provided 
figures for each of these totalling  £565,  with her overall monthly expenditure totalling £1,020. 
This was against a reported income of £1,500 per month. So this part of cash4unows 
affordability check suggests Mrs B had enough  income left over each month  to afford the 
£137 repayments for the loan it agreed.
I understand Mrs Bs representatives point that it wouldnt be responsible  for a lender to 
simply take the word  of a customer that they can afford the repayments.  But I dont think  
thats what happened here.  cash4unow assessed  Mrs Bs reported income and expenditure 
and also carried out a credit check. While  I havent  seen the full results of this credit check, 
cash4unow says that Mrs B only had one other active short-term  loan at the time, had 
maintained a good payment history  in the 12 months before the loan was approved and was 
only using a relatively small percentage of her available credit card limit. The £565 of credit  
commitments Mrs B declared on her application could reasonably be interpreted as enough 
to service her existing debts. So I dont  think the credit check  undermined what  
Ref: DRN91601862Mrs B said about her monthly  expenditure, meaning cash4unow didnt need  to ask Mrs B 
further questions  this in light of its credit  check.
In summary,  I think cash4unow acted  reasonably  by approving  Mrs Bs application for this 
loan. I dont think it had good reason to think the loan might be unaffordable for her and so 
I am not able to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against Novaloans  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160186