K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained about the balance which Welcome Financial Services Limited  told him was 
still outstanding  on his secured loan.
background
In 2008, Mr M took a ten year secured  loan for around £13,900.  This was a transfer from a 
previous secured loan. Mr M signed a loan agreement which set out the variable interest  rate 
of 23.3% and a total charge for credit of around  £18,300. The agreement set out the current  
charges. It also explained  that we charge interest  on any interest and any other charges 
previously debited to your account which  have not been paid and reasonable costs  we incur 
as a result  of your breach.  
Over the next few years, there  were  times  when  Mr M wasnt  able to make his monthly  
payment in full. There were conversations  between  Mr M and Welcome about  this.
On 30 April 2018, Mr M received his latest statement and rang Welcome about his balance. 
The statement  had said his balance was around  £5,700. Mr M told Welcome that hed 
already paid over £30,000 on the loan,  so he didnt think there  should be much left to pay. 
He told Welcome he was having  financial difficulties.
In its final response,  Welcome agreed that Mr M had paid £30,068.83.  But it pointed out that 
hed missed 15 payments.  The total of loan and interest had originally been £31,321.20,  
which was to have  been paid off by March 2018.  But because  Mr M had missed payments, 
extra interest had built up, increasing  the balance. And Welcome  also said that Mr M had 
mostly been  paying after the agreed payment  date of 15th of each month.  It explained that 
missed, late or partial payments mean a customer pays more interest over the course of a 
loan. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. He said he was furious to be told he 
owed over £5,000  because  he couldnt afford to continue  paying. He said he had small 
children and felt Welcomes practice was unlawful. He said he thought repayments needed 
to cease. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He looked at Mr Ms account  history, and 
explained that as Mr M hadnt always met the full amount  of monthly payments, interest  had 
been added  to the outstanding debt. This had effectively extended the term of the loan. The 
adjudicator also noted that Mr Ms account was now being managed by a different 
organisation, and he suggested to Mr M that he should continue  to speak to that 
organisation about making payments.
Mr M said he felt this was an unfair  outcome and asked  for an ombudsman  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes looking at the history  of Mr 
Ms payments, and Welcomes notes about  contact with Mr M over the course of his loan. 
Ref: DRN96331002I recognise Mr M was annoyed to find that he still owed around £5,000, because the 
agreement he signed set out total payments of around £31,000,  and by summer 2018 hed 
paid just over £30,000. 
But the reason  is that Mr M hadnt always been  able to make the full payments which were 
due, when they were  due. The agreement  Mr M signed wasnt just that hed pay back around 
£31,000 in total - but that hed make monthly payments on a set payment date each month. 
When Mr M wasnt able to do this, interest  was added. Mr Ms signed agreement had set out 
that Welcome could charge interest  and fees.  So Welcome was entitled to the interest and 
fees it charged Mr M.  
This service doesnt provide a detailed accounting  service, so I cant  say whether or not Mr 
Ms outstanding balance is exactly correct. But looking at the history of Mr Ms missed and 
reduced payments,  the outstanding balance is around what Id expect from that account  
history.
So I find that Welcome didnt act unfairly in saying Mr M still owed around £5,000, because 
Mr M had signed up to pay back the money in set amounts at set times.  He wasnt able to do 
so, but that doesnt mean Welcome had to write off what  it had charged  Mr M in line with the 
terms of the loan. 
I can see that at various points, Mr M reported  financial  difficulties to Welcome. Lenders are 
required to act positively  and sympathetically with customers  who are in financial difficulties. 
So Ive looked  at what was discussed  over the years,  to see whether Welcome  met this 
requirement. 
I can see that Welcome talked about the account in some detail with Mr M. This was fair 
because Mr M was in arrears. It also pointed out the possible impact  of missing payments or 
paying less than the amounts owed.  It kept him informed by sending  statements to him, so 
Mr M could  see that the balance was increasing.  And it gave him contact details for advice 
services and debt charities. I also note that the lender didnt request immediate payment of 
the outstanding balance  at the end of the loan term in early 2018. So I find that Welcome 
didnt act unfairly towards Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633100