K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mrs E aware the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs E applied for her card and 
PPI but BoS has provided a copy of the paperwork available from the time. The application 
form Mrs E completed when she applied for her card and PPI had a separate section for the 
policy that Mrs E signed separately from agreeing to the card to take the PPI. With this in 
mind I think BoS made it clear that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out although I can understand  why she may not remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs E so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. Mrs E 
has told us she was entitled to sick pay at the time she took the policy. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Es sick pay and for longer than she would  have received full 
pay,
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Es circumstances at the time she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for her.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs E about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said including that the rules  say we should  presume  
Mrs E wouldnt have  taken PPI if she was given more information. But I still think  she 
wouldve bought  the policy if she had been  given clearer information. So these comments  
dont change my conclusion.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs E paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs E back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs E.
Ref: DRN90759242my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9075924