K822xcomplaint
Mr K complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr K says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny.
background
We now know that Mr K took out 7 instalment loans from Sunny between  September 2015  
and April 2016. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ks borrowing with Sunny, based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 6 onwards. Sunny offered to otherwise settle the complaint but this 
wasnt agreed to by Mr K. The complaint has therefore come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ks 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr K could repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN96308412whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  the loans; not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr K could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr K. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of lending history with 
a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above  about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Sunny most likely carried out appear to have been proportionate  for loans 1  
4. I think these levels of checks,  together with the income and expenditure  details provided  
by Mr K himself, would have made those particular loans appear affordable  for him. 
I think that by loan 5, Sunny ought to have carried out more comprehensive checks although 
I cant see any evidence it did this. However,  in this case, I dont actually think this would 
have made  a difference. Thats because Mr K hasnt shown me anything  that demonstrates 
Sunny would have  thought that it shouldnt have lent to Mr K at that point in time. In short, I 
think Sunny  would have looked  at his finances  and still lent him the money for loan 5, even if 
its checks had been more searching.  
So Im afraid  Im not minded to uphold his complaint in respect of loans 1  5.
From the point of loan 6 onwards however, I think things  would have  looked  different and 
therefore required a more responsible approach.  I think by this point it was obvious that Mr K 
was experiencing difficulty  in managing money  because of the debts repayments he had. 
For loan 6, for example, Sunny ought to have been  aware this was his sixth such loan in 3 
months. I accept loan 6 reduced in value somewhat, but actually his monthly repayments 
became the highest yet and represented a substantial percentage of his overall  income; I 
think he would have  found this very hard to cope with. This is because  he hadnt yet paid for 
loans 4 or 5 and so he was paying for 3 loans  at once.
Theres no evidence Sunny altered its approach at the point of loan 6 to look more 
thoroughly at Mr Ks financial situation. I think any reasonable assessment of his situation 
would have shown  he was probably borrowing to meet normal  ongoing commitments and he 
was in financial trouble. I think  it was irresponsible to lend from the point of loan 6 onwards.
From the point of loan 7, there  was an additional  and clear  pattern of repeated lending 
evident in my view.  By then, there was an obvious  dependency on high-interest, short-term 
lending evidenced  by this, his seventh  loan 7 months. 
So Im also upholding  Mr Ks complaint in respect of loan 7 as well. Sunny repeatedly lent to 
Mr K in an unsustainable manner because:
Ref: DRN96308413 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr K borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 6 from Mr Ks credit file;
loan 7 means any information recorded about  it is adverse. So all entries about loans 
7 should be completely removed from Mr Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr K a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint. Elevate Credit  International Limited  
should put things right for Mr K as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Monthly  
Payment
1 11/09/2015 06/10/2015 6 £300.00 £84
2 18/09/2015 06/10/2015 6 £200.00 £137
3 26/09/2015 06/10/2015 6 £100.00 £167
4 24/10/2015 29/09/2017 6 £500.00 £153
Ref: DRN963084145 13/11/2015 28/04/2017 6 £400.00 £264
6 19/12/2015 02/04/2016 6 £150.00 £304
7 06/04/2016 05/07/2018 6 £700.00 £503
Ref: DRN9630841