K821x#15complaint
Ms R says she was advised  by Commercial Land  and Property brokers  (CL&P),  an 
unregulated introducer, to switch a personal  pension to a self invested  personal  pension 
(SIPP) for the purpose of making investments in Store First,  GAS  Verdant and Walsall Burial  
Park.  Her complaint  about Options SIPP UK LLP is that if it had carried out adequate due 
diligence on CL&P the pension switch and the investments would not have been made.    
Up until very recently Options SIPP UK LLP was known as Carey.  As at all material  times 
the firm was known  as Carey this is how I will refer to the firm throughout the rest of this 
decision. 
background
Carey  
Carey is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Carey is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring  about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments. 
CL&P 
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. One of the directors  of CL&P  was a 
Terence Wright. On 15 October  2010, the following was published on the Financial Services  
Authority (FSA), website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to warn  
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things,  advising  on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual  may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
the relationship  between CL&P and Carey 
Carey was approached  by CL&P in 2011  and entered into discussions about  accepting 
introductions from it. Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P  at this time. It 
Ref: DRN90642172says it reviewed CL&P's profile,  conducted  searches,  reviewed CL&Ps  website and 
literature and had conversations  with CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
Carey began to accept introductions from CL&P on 15 August 2011.
A non-regulated introducer profile  was completed by CL&P  on 29 September 2011.  It was 
signed by a Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm, and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845  telephone number.
It had been  trading  for two years, and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First,  Verdant  Australian 
Farmland, and two other  unregulated investments.
It worked with four other  SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was referrals  and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved  a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various  compliance officers. 
Carey had a conference call with representatives  of CL&P  on 9 December 2011. During that 
call the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P  to transfer to a SIPP and 
make investments was raised, and concern about  final salary  scheme  transfers. The note of 
the call included the following: 
Concern was raised at a recent AMPS  [Association of Member-Directed  Pension  Schemes] 
conference regarding Final Salary Transfers to SIPPs, the need for clients to take advice, 
the fact that ordinarily you would not expect more than 5% of FSTVs to be execution  only 
and these would only be relevant for suitably qualified individuals such as IFAs, Brokers, 
Investment Professionals. [Carey staff member] explained the matters raised at the 
conference. Discussed with CLP because some 30% of the business received into Careys 
from them is in relation to FS transfers which previously have been  processed with member  
declarations. All agreed that in future  cases of FS Transfers would be referred  to suitably 
qualified IFAs for relevant  advice and copy of that advice would be provided  to Careys for file 
records. 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member  had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store  First Investment,  [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected  parties  referred by CL&P  receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing  the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include  offering  inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely  against  all rules that clients  or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular  investments .
An agreement between Carey and CL&P was signed in March  2012. This was back-dated to 
August 2011.  Carey  says this was done to cover  all the investments that had been  
introduced to it by CL&P.  
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P on 25 May 2012. It says the basis  for this was 
Carey again becoming  aware that CL&P was offering consumers cash  incentives for 
Ref: DRN90642173transferring to a Carey  SIPP  and making  investments.  It says this came to light when 
consumers contacted it to ask when the money  would be paid.
Ms Rs dealings with CL&P
Ms R has said she was cold called by CL&P in 2011  offering a pension  review.  Ms R said 
the upshot of this was that she was advised to switch her personal pension  to a SIPP and to 
make the above  investments.
In late November 2011 Carey received a completed application form from CL&P.  On 30 
January 2012  the funds (around £65,000)  was received in the SIPP.  The  following  
investments were then made:
£25,000 was invested in GAS  Verdant  on 6 February 2012, 
£34,000 was invested in Store  First on 9 February 2012
£2,400 in Walsall  Burial  on 25 September 2012
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self storage units,  which were part 
of a larger storage  facility  in a UK location. Investors  bought  one or more  units  in the facility,  
and were offered  a guaranteed level of income  for a set period of time. After that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided,  or sell them  (assuming there was a market 
for them). 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
Gas Verdant Australian Farmland
The Verdant  Australian Farmland investment took the form of a land purchase contract 
which involved a company based  in Cyprus (GAS Global Agricultural Services  Ltd) leasing 
plots of agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were  to be planted on the plots, and 
the objective was to provide an income to investors through  the sale of those crops and 
capital growth through the sale of the plot of land after an eight year period.  
Walsall Burial Park
Ms R purchased a number of plots in this burial park with the intention  of selling them on for 
profit.
Ms R says she understood  she was being advised by CL&P, and it recommended  both the 
switch of the personal pension to the SIPP  with Carey and the three investments.  
Ms R signed  the following in relation  to the Store First investment: 
I, [Ms R] being the member of the above  Scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd to 
Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First investment through  Harley-Scott 
Holdings Ltd for a consideration  of £62,000,  on my behalf for the above Scheme.
Ref: DRN90642174I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High Risk 
and / or Speculative.  
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this investment and 
have taken my own advice, including financial,  investment and tax advice. 
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees  UK Ltd act 
on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither Carey  Pensions UK LLP nor Carey 
Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that my business /occupation is not renting  out storage  units.  
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable Moveable 
Property and / or any tax charges be deemed  by HMRC to apply in future these will be paid 
directly from the fund or by me as the member  of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event  of my demise, if Carey Pension  Trustees  UK 
Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be transferred to my 
beneficiaries through my estate  and accordingly may be subject  to any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf  of the Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I confirm that I agree  to [name of solicitor] fee of £400 + VAT for transacting  this investment.
I confirm I am fully aware  that additional costs will be incurred in this transaction  including, 
but not limited  to: 
£48 CHAPs Fee;
£8 Land Registry Search Fee;
Stamp Duty Land Tax - To be advised  by Solicitor at completion;
Any other taxes - To be advised by Solicitor at completion;
I agree  to Carey Pensions Fee of £500 + VAT, amounting for transacting  this investment.
I agree  that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of default, 
by me personally.
I agree  to provide Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further  information  and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I indemnify both Carey  Pensions UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees Ltd against  any and 
all liability  arising from this investment.
Ms R signed  essentially  identical declarations  for the GAS Verdant investments and the 
Walsall Burial Park.
Careys position  
In its submission to us Carey said, in summary:  
Ref: DRN90642175Carey does not (and is not permitted to) provide any advice to clients  in relation to 
the establishment of a SIPP, transfers  in or the underlying investments, nor does it 
comment in any way on the suitability of a SIPP, the transfers in and investments for 
an individuals circumstances. It did not advise, nor purport  to advise,  Ms R.
Carey acts as the administrator only of Ms Rs SIPP. Ms R opened her SIPP and 
went on to invest on an execution only (i.e. non-advised) basis and this was made 
very clear in communications with her, the documentation issued to her, and the 
paperwork she read, signed and agreed  to.
CL&P was a non-regulated introducer and as such, it was never suggested to Ms R 
by Carey Pensions that CL&P  was a financial adviser or was authorised to provide 
advice. Ms R was therefore  categorised as a direct client of Carey.
Carey did not suggest or recommend the investments to Ms R.  Carey is not 
responsible for the performance or current market value of her investments.  
Carey acted on Ms Rs instructions to establish  the SIPP, arrange the switch of the 
personal pension  and make the three  investments.   
Carey carried  out an internal investment  review  and due diligence  on the three 
investments and concluded that these investments were  suitable to be held within  a 
UK pension scheme.
Carey undertook due diligence  on CL&P and this due diligence did not reveal any 
reason why Carey  should not accept  introductions from CL&P at the time of Ms Rs 
investments.
the investigators view 
Our investigator considered things and concluded  the complaint should  be upheld.  He said,  
in summary: 
He thought the FCAs Principles for Businesses and the regulatory publications which  
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve  the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles were  relevant considerations here. 
Carey carried  out significant due diligence,  but it took a piecemeal approach, and in 
the meantime  accepted  business  from CL&P.  Had it carried  out all its due diligence  
at the outset, it ought to have concluded  it should  not accept business from CL&P  at 
all. 
In any event, by the time it sent Ms Rs money  was invested it knew  enough to 
conclude it would  not be treating Ms R fairly by accepting business  from CL&P.  
Carey should have conducted  background checks  on the directors of CL&P  at the 
outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey  checked the 
directors at the outset it would have discovered  that Terence Wright was subject to a 
warning on the FSAs website. 
Ref: DRN90642176Carey should have asked for accounts and identification  documents at the outset, but 
only did this after the relationship had been  ongoing for a number of months. The fact 
that CL&P failed  to provide this information, despite  reminders, was cause  for 
concern. Had Carey asked at the outset and CL&P had failed to provide them, it 
should not have entered  into a relationship  with CL&P. 
Carey didnt enter into an agreement with CL&P  until March 2012. There was no 
clarity over the obligations of Carey and CL&P at the time of Ms Rs application  being  
accepted. 
Carey was concerned  CL&P was offering  cash  back incentives to consumers  in 
December 2011. 
Carey put some  reliance on the documents signed by Ms R.  But it should not have 
accepted her application at all, so should not have required her to sign any 
documents. And asking Ms R to sign the documents did not mean it was fair and 
reasonable to act on her investment instructions. 
further information  provided by Carey  
We asked Carey to provide us with some  further  information about its relationship with 
CL&P. Its response included the following general  points; 
551 clients were  introduced to Carey via CL&P. 466 clients had been  introduced  by 
the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business.
There was an FCA regulated financial adviser who provided  pension transfer advice 
to 73 of the clients introduced to Carey by CL&P, in relation  to defined benefit 
pension transfers  (there is no evidence to show Ms R was one of these clients). 
Carey first had awareness  of the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives 
by CL&P in late November 2011. This was following the AMPS  committee issuing an 
alert that they had received reports from a number of pension providers about 
inducements being  paid to scheme members  without the knowledge of the pension 
provider, and the member being told to hide the payment. No details were given 
about the parties involved. With this in mind, and following a potential  new member  
introduced by CL&P asking Carey  when they would receive their cash, Carey held an 
urgent telephone conference with representatives from CL&P (the notes of this call 
are quoted above). 
It has no record of receiving the accounts  for CL&P and certified copies of the 
directors passports it asked for. It thinks it is likely  that this lack of response was a 
factor in its decision to terminate its relationship  with CL&P.
CL&P only introduced  the clients to Carey at inception, it was not an ongoing service 
agent and, as such, the relationship was always between Carey and the members 
from establishment of the SIPPs,  as its direct clients.  It was the clients'  decision to 
select CL&P as their introducer.
There were  numerous  introducers  in the market and regulated  advisers who were
introducing/advising clients regarding the Store  First Investment and whose clients 
sought SIPP services  from Carey and other SIPP administrators. Carey had no 
Ref: DRN90642177reason to suspect  that because one of these - CL&P - had been offering cash  
inducements that there might be any particular issue or additional risks for clients in 
respect of the underlying investment.
The member declaration was very clear regarding what the investments were and, 
crucially, that they are high risk.
We asked Ms R if she received a cash back incentive from CL&P  after the investments had 
been made. Ms R has confirmed that she did not. 
Careys response to the investigators view  
The FCA warning about  Terence Wright changed  in 2013.  Whilst there was a notice  
about him in 2010  it did not warn  firms  about  doing business with him.  
The fact that the FSA later made express  comment as to Mr Wright's  conduct, but did 
not make  any comment of a similar  nature in the earlier  wording plainly indicates that 
at the time that Carey  accepted business  from CL&P, the FSA did not believe Mr 
Wright to have been providing financial services or products without  authorisation at 
that time,  nor consider  it necessary  to express  any concerns in this regard.
The investigators view amounts to a requirement for Carey to have refused business 
from a business  associated with an individual on the basis that it should have been 
"wary of conducting regulated business with" him, despite the FSA/FCA not having 
made such a comment, prohibiting  businesses from dealing with Mr Wright, or having 
taken any action  against him. 
If the FSA did not consider  there  to be any cause for concern at the relevant time and
there was no way through reasonable due diligence  checks for Carey  to establish 
any cause for concern,  then plainly it is not fair or reasonable  to have expected  
Carey to have rejected  business from CL&P on this basis.
COBS 11.2.19, which deals with execution  only business and was in force  at the 
relevant time, stated  as follows:
"Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the 
order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps  to obtain 
the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an order, or a 
specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions  from the client relating to 
the order or the specific aspect of the order."
The significance of this rule to an execution only business, such  as Carey, cannot  be 
overstated. Carey  would  have  been in breach  of COBS if it had not executed  Ms R's 
specific instructions to make the investment. 
Ref: DRN90642178In general correspondence about the group of complaints  to which  Ms Rs complaint belongs  
Carey has also:
Asked that a response be given to each  of its points before a final decision was 
made. 
Suggested that we hold an oral hearing.
Asked us to put the complaints on hold, pending a judgment in the Adams v Carey  
court case. 
Carey has also made some points about  consumers being  motivated by cash  incentives and 
making fraudulent  declarations. But I have not considered those here as Ms R did not 
receive a cash incentive. 
my findings
Some preliminary points
delay deciding this case  until  judgment  in Adams v Carey has been handed down? 
I do not consider  it appropriate to wait for the outcome of Adams  v Carey.  That is a different 
case to Ms Rs complaint  and Ms R is not party  to those proceedings. That being said,  I 
understand the case does involve an investment being made in Store First introduced by 
CL&P.  But case was heard  in March 2018  and the judges decision has still not yet been 
handed down  two years  later. As far as I am aware,  there is no publicly available information 
about when the decision is likely to be published. And any judgment,  when eventually  
handed down,  could be subject to appeal.    
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality  (see section 225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2014] 
EWHC 3972 Admin).  I must therefore carefully  take this into consideration in deciding 
whether or not I should delay deciding this case until after the outcome in Adams v Carey  
becomes known. And, given the substantial  delay in the judgment being handed down, I 
dont think I should  delay deciding Ms Rs case.    
I am required to determine the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account, but not being  bound by, various 
matters including  the law. I may depart from the law if I consider it fair and reasonable to do 
so, as long as I provide sufficient reasons for doing  so. 
Its also relevant here that there has been  judgment  by Jacobs J in relation to a judicial 
review in respect of a final determination  that specifically considered the due diligence  
obligations of SIPP operators: R (Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878). 
Berkeley Burke (BBSAL) had brought a claim for judicial review about a decision of an 
ombudsman which found that BBSAL as SIPP operator had not treated its client fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted an investment into her SIPP. The ombudsman had found that 
Ref: DRN90642179the FCA Principles  and good industry  practice at the time meant that the SIPP  operator 
ought to have carried out due diligence before accepting  an investment into the SIPP. 
The judgment of Jacobs J provides a strong endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint. The judgment  also considers section 228 FSMA and the 
approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. I accept that Ms Rs 
complaint is different from the complaint in the BBSAL case, and that each complaint will be 
determined on its own individual merits. However,  the relevant considerations are similar. As 
a result,  in my view, its unnecessary to await the judgment in Adams  v Carey.
 
I have carefully considered the points made by Carey in support of its request for me not to 
progress this complaint.  In deciding that request Ive weighed  the interests of all the parties, 
and my statutory commitments. Having done  so, I consider it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
to put this case on hold while we await the outcome of the separate civil claim.
oral hearing?
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening 
a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to take part in a 
hearing.
Carey hasnt requested  a hearing in this complaint  as such,  but Im aware it has suggested 
there should be a hearing because of the significance of the issues and to allow  it to better  
understand the investigators reasoning (in other  cases).  Ive therefore  thought  about this 
carefully and in the specific circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied I can fairly 
determine the matter without  a hearing. In particular, I note:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up as an informal  dispute resolution 
forum and this complaint  falls squarely within the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  
service.  While I accept  that the complaint is significant to both parties that is very 
often the case  and that point  alone cannot be the test for whether or not an oral 
hearing needs to be convened in order to fairly determine the case.  There  is nothing 
in the particular circumstances of this case that has persuaded  me that it cannot  be 
fairly determined without a hearing. 
Carey clearly believes the ombudsman service  has misunderstood the applicable law 
and regulation and it has set out its position  clearly  in writing.
Both parties have  been given an ample  opportunity to make representations and set 
out their positions.  
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (R on the application  of Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
After carefully, taking account of all the available evidence, Im satisfied I can fairly  
determine Ms Rs complaint without convening a hearing. 
Ref: DRN906421710A provisional decision?  
I note that Carey has asked for us to respond  to specific  points before I make  a final 
decision. DISP  3.5.4R sets out the procedure I must  follow  when determining  a complaint: 
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
1.ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
2.send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time limit 
within which either party  must  respond; and
3.if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that time 
limit, proceed to determination.
I am satisfied that Ms R and Carey have  been given adequate opportunity to make 
representations. Ms R and Carey  have also received a provisional assessment, which set 
out in detail the investigators reasons for reaching  their view (the provisional  assessment). 
Carey disagrees with that decision. 
I am required to give reasons for my decision,  not to give a point by point response to 
everything that has been said by the parties to the complaint. As recognised by the High 
Court in R (Williams) v FOS [2008]  EWHC  2142,  this service is dealing  with complaints, not 
causes of action.  Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not adversarial, and we are required to 
resolve complaints  quickly and with the minimum of formality in accordance with section 225 
of FSMA. It would not be consistent  with our powers or remit to do as Carey has asked and 
respond to each and every point it has made  before making a determination. 
So the next step is for me to proceed  to determination. And I am satisfied it is appropriate  for 
me to do that here.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN906421711In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
Subsequently Jacobs  J at paragraph  104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration  Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  [2018] EWHC  2878)  having set out some paragraphs of the 
British Banking Association judgment, including  paragraph  162 set out above,  said;
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment  in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based  regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt  to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests  rule). 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
Ref: DRN906421712The September 2009 thematic review report pre-dates the events subject of this complaint 
and is therefore  particularly relevant. The report included  the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged to ensure  the fair 
treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension  scheme  is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the 
responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously  analyse the individual risks to themselves 
and their clients, with reference  to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves  of any responsibility,  and we would  expect them  to have procedures  and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member  to confirm the position,  or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate  to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious  potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual  cases,  we 
may take enforcement action against  SIPP operators  who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles  for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made  to firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients,  and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments  recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, together  with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek  
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Ref: DRN906421713Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible  for advice,  having  this 
information would enhance the firms  understanding of its clients, making  the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the reasons for 
this.
In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory  responsibilities that became a requirement  in 
April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat clients  fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client  for 
SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP  operators responsibility  
to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that advise clients  
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate  permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved  persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear  on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business  warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business  objectives  are, the types  of clients  they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments  such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would  enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example  from 
the prospective member  or their adviser,  if it has any concerns. 
Ref: DRN906421714Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility  for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being  supplied  with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being  used  to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  relationships  and 
clarify responsibilities  for relationships with other professional bodies  such  as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their business  
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain  
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate for personal  pension  schemes)  to help 
them justify  their business decisions. In doing  this SIPP  operators  should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC,  or 
where a tax charge  is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge  paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types  of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House  records, 
identifying connected  parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses  or relies  on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms  include having a set of benchmarks,  or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard  the firm is 
prepared to accept to either  deal with introducers  or accept  investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those  instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed  business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such as 
instances of potential  pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
Ref: DRN906421715relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm 
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors have 
received income  if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc).
Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter are not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised  guidance  is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  did not constitute formal guidance 
does not mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned, they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  for the kinds of things 
a SIPP  operator  might do to ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing also goes some  way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice. 
I also note that Careys regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Ms Rs relationship with it. So the reports, letter and guidance  which each gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2013 finalised guidance and the Dear CEO letter  was published after 
the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed  
throughout, as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with COBS  
2.1.1R (the client's  best interests  rule).
It is also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, it is clear the standards themselves did not 
change.
That doesnt  mean that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind.  The reports, letter  and guidance gave non-
Ref: DRN906421716exhaustive guidance.  They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of what  a SIPP  
operator should do. As the annex  to the Dear CEO letter  notes, what should be done  to 
meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.  
So, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether  Carey complied with its  
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise  its business affairs responsibly  and effectively,  to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the clients best interests. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles  and the publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R to provide an 
indication of what Carey  could have done  to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
duties. 
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs.  I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding  
whether to accept  or reject particular  investments  and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  their work with SIPP operators. 
the due diligence carried out by Carey on CL&P 
It is clear that Carey understood and accepted  that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on CL&P. On the non-regulated introducer  profile, Carey stated, As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
The evidence Carey  has provided indicates  it took the following due diligence  on CL&P:  
On 19 September  2011 it obtained  a print out of the CL&P  website.  This contained 
the following  information:
we are working hard to become the leading supplier of commercial land and 
products across different areas with good long term growth.
expert advice tailored  to the individual  (my emphasis)
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, CLP brokers 
do not provide  any financial advice.
20 September 2011  it completed background checks on two representatives of 
CL&P.
27 September 2011  it asked CL&P to complete  a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011- the non-regulated introducer profile was completed  by CL&P. It 
was signed by Terence Wright, and named him and Lesley Wright as directors  of 
CL&P. 
9 December 2011  it spoke to representatives of CL&P and discussed the high 
portion of business it had introduced which related to the transfer of final salary 
schemes, and the payment of cash  back incentives. It was agreed that in future any 
Ref: DRN906421717defined benefit  transfers would be referred  to a suitably qualified  IFA for relevant 
advice and a copy of that advice would be provided  to Carey for its file record.
13 March 2012  it asked CL&P to sign a non-regulated introducer  agreement,  
backdated to the time it first started  to refer business  to Carey (15 August 2011). 
23 March 2012  it asked CL&P for a copy of its accounts and passports  of the 
directors. 
3 April 2012  it repeated  its request  to CL&P for a copy  of its accounts and 
passports of the directors. 
15 May 2012  it completed a background check on Terence Wright, which revealed 
he was the subject of an FSA alert.  
When taken together,  these efforts went  some  way towards meeting the examples of good  
practice set out by the regulator in the publications Ive set out above. I expect Careys 
action was taken  with these  and its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind. However, 
rather than conducting  sufficient due diligence proactively,  before  deciding to accept 
business from CL&P, in my view Carey  took a reactive  piecemeal  approach.  Acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations  Carey should have taken many of the steps it 
subsequently took prior to accepting any business  from CL&P.  If it had done so, I think  it 
ought to have led it to conclude that it would not be fair and reasonable to accept Ms Rs 
business from CL&P.  I have set out below in more detail  the steps I think  Carey  should have 
taken and what, acting fairly and reasonably, it should have concluded having taken those 
steps. 
What should Carey have done? 
 
The FSA warning 
At the very outset, I think Carey should have checked the regulators list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals. The list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals and 
businesses. Checking the warnings posted  on the FSAs website is something that Carey 
should have done as matter of course as a part of sufficient due diligence, before it began  
accepting any business from CL&P. CL&P was an unregulated  business,  based in Spain, 
and was proposing to deal with the pensions of UK consumers, in an introductory capacity. 
As I explain later in this decision, I think if Carey had carried  out sufficient  due diligence,  or 
drawn reasonable conclusions from what it already knew, it ought to have known CL&P was 
going to be doing more  than merely  introducing consumers to Careys SIPP. But, in any 
event, Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated 
businesses, which were  often based  overseas, dealing with UK consumers. As a SIPP  
operator considering accepting business  from an unregulated overseas firm it should have 
been mindful of this list and, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have checked it before 
proceeding. 
I note that the non-regulated introducer profile  had a question which asked Are you and/or 
the Firm subject to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. Mr 
Wright answered that question No. However,  it was not sufficient in my view to simply ask 
the introducer a general  question.  Rather, I think Carey, acting fairly and in Ms Rs best 
interests, should have  carried  out checks on Mr Wright. I think  a reasonable step for it to 
have taken was to check the FSAs list of warnings. Had it done so, it would  have discovered  
Ref: DRN906421718that Mr Wright was on the list and subject of the warning I have quoted  in the background  
section. 
I also note the background checking  service  Carey used revealed Mr Wrights presence on 
the list when it ran a check on Mr Wright on 15 May 2012. When  Carey began  accepting 
business from CL&P it used this checking  service,  but used it to check  two representatives 
of CL&P, rather than to check  Mr Wright. I agree with what  the investigator said about this in 
her view  acting fairly and reasonably Carey should have checked Mr Wright at the outset, 
not two representatives of CL&P. The available evidence shows  Carey knew  Mr Wright  was 
a director of CL&P  it is therefore  him they should  have checked  at the outset. 
So I think that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably, should have checked the FSAs list at the 
outset, and would have checked the FSAs list at the outset (via the checking service). 
I note that Carey ended  its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on Mr 
Wright. It therefore seems  likely  this check was a factor in its decision to end the 
relationship. So had Carey focussed  its checks on the correct  target  at the outset  it may 
have led it to draw a different conclusion about the acceptance of business from CL&P  at the 
outset. 
Carey now says, in its representations in this complaint relating to the FSAs list, that  the  
Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on 
regulated activities, a fact of which Carey was well aware and upon which basis  it accepted 
referrals from CL&P. 
I think Mr Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have highlighted to Carey  that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Mr Wrights activities to warn consumers about him. 
And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was 
aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning  should  have acted as a significant reason for Carey  to 
be concerned about  any business Mr Wright was involved  in  not just Cash  In Your 
Pension. The warning  mentioned that Mr Wright  was involved in the area of pensions   
which is the same business area as CL&P was active  in. And the warning said that Mr 
Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection  with 
investment business  conducted through an unregulated company, Cash  In Your  Pension.  
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered  no to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct. 
Carey has tried to downplay the significance of the 2010 warning by contrasting  it with one 
that was published in 2013. It says that the 2010  warning does not detail any concern by the 
regulator about Mr Wright.  I accept  that the 2013 warning provides strong advice  to only deal 
with financial firms authorised by the FCA.  However,  I do not agree with Careys 
characterisation of the 2010 warning and Im surprised  that in response to the investigators 
provisional assessment  Carey suggests that the regulator does not detail any concern about 
Mr Wright  in the 2010 warning. Whilst it does  not explicitly say that Mr Wright had been 
undertaking a regulated activity the inference  that he had is in my view clear. If the regulator 
had no concerns it would not have issued an alert in order  to warn investors against dealing  
Ref: DRN906421719with unauthorised firms  followed by advice telling members of the public that Mr Wright was 
not authorised  to carry on a regulated activity including advising on investments. 
Carey accepts that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time of it 
accepting business  from CL&P,  would have  been  sufficient to stop it doing  business with Mr 
Wright/CL&P. Carey has said:
The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear  warning including  an express  
comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning that would  have put Carey 
Pensions on notice  to stop accepting business  from Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
In my view the October 2010 warning was also a clear indication  that the regulator  had 
serious concerns  about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore  should 
equally have  put Carey on notice that it should  not accept business from Mr Wright.  
A warning headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document.  Its clear 
from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms and specifically named Mr Wright.  He was involved in targeting  (to use the FSAs 
phrase) UK based  pension  investors   which should  have been of particular concern for a 
SIPP operator considering accepting business from him.  The warning also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised  firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about  the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms  
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
So the warning  was more than a mere statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not 
carry out regulated  activities. It was a clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to Mr 
Wright, providing links to guidance  on consumer protection and warnings about  scams. In 
my view the 2010 warning  is as serious in its implications as the 2013  warning. 
So in summary,  if Carey had undertaken sufficient  due diligence on CL&P  it would  have 
discovered that its director Terence Wright was on the FSA warning list and acting fairly and 
reasonably it should  have  declined to do business  with him. I think  this alone was sufficient 
for Carey to conclude that acting fairly and reasonably and taking account  of the need to act 
in Ms Rs best interests it should not have accepted business from CL&P.  
CL&Ps business model 
As Ive highlighted above, in the circumstances, I think that acting in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Ms R, the 2010  warning alone  should 
have resulted in Carey  declining to do business  with CL&P.  However, as Carey  does not 
accept that the 2010 warning should have led it to conclude it should not accept business 
from CL&P I have, for completeness, considered  what other due diligence  Carey  should 
have carried out, as an absolute minimum.
Carey should have made enquiries to satisfy  itself CL&P was not conducting business in a 
way that could result in a real risk of detriment for consumers.  In complying with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Ms R fairly, it is fair and reasonable to say 
that Carey should  have  ensured that it fully understood CL&Ps  business model before it 
Ref: DRN906421720accepted any business from it. And I note Carey appears to have recognised  this itself, 
having explained in the introduction to the non-regulated introducer profile:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required  to carry out due diligence  as best 
practice on unregulated  introducer firms looking  to introduce client  to us to gain some  insight 
into the business they carry  out.
 
In response to the investigators view, Carey  says that it reasonably  considered at all times  
that CL&P was an unregulated introducer  which was not providing advice. However, I dont 
agree that this is a reasonable conclusion given the information that was either readily  
available at the time or that could have been  discovered through  a basic  level of due 
diligence. Rather,  I think there  was a significant  risk that CL&P  was targeting  UK pension  
consumers and giving them  advice even though it was not regulated  to do so. 
Ms R says she received  advice. And I think its fair to say that its unusual  for people  to make 
important decisions about their pensions without advice or a recommendation about  where  
to invest funds  particularly where the investment is high risk and unregulated.  Theres  also 
no suggestion that Ms R spoke to anyone else about her pension options or that any other  
party was involved.  So I think  on balance  its likely  that Ms R was advised  by CL&P  to make 
the switch to the SIPP and the investments in it.   
This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of Careys  thinking when 
dealing with an unregulated business  like CL&P - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Mr Wright who the FSA believed was targeting  UK customers, and the 
reference to advice  contained in the print out of CL&Ps website Carey had regard to. 
I think given Careys regulatory obligations, it is fair and reasonable, to say that it should  
have taken steps to understand much  more about what  CL&Ps  business model involved 
beyond the limited information contained  in the non-regulated introducer profile and the other  
basic enquiries that it made. Carey should, for example, have followed up on the very brief 
answers provided on the introducer profile about  how CL&P  actually contacted potential 
customers, the type of investments it would be introducing, what  information was being 
provided to customers,  what steps  were being taken to ensure  that customers  were not 
advised or were  directed to a regulated adviser, and how CL&P  ensured that it was not 
conducting other regulated activities. 
If it had conducted  further enquiries as part of its due diligence before accepting  this 
business I think Carey would have (or ought to have) identified  that it was unusual that 
CL&P, an unregulated  business based in Spain, was contacting  consumers in the UK about 
pension investments. I think its likely that it would have found that CL&P  was calling  
customers to discuss  their pensions, that it specialised in a few high risk esoteric 
investments and, following contact from CL&P,  and without the involvement of any other 
regulated parties,  many  UK consumers  were transferring their pensions  to SIPPs to make 
these investments. I also think that its likely  that Carey would have found that were 
insufficient safeguards  against advice being  given.  
Knowing this, and the regulators  warning  about  Mr Wright, I think  Carey ought to have 
identified that there  was a real and significant risk of consumer detriment in introductions 
made to it by CL&P. This ought to have given it further reason  to conclude that it would not 
be consistent with its regulatory obligations - it would not be treating Ms R fairly and in her 
best interests - to accept business from CL&P.
Ref: DRN906421721I accept that there is a possibility that, if Carey  had made enquiries, CL&P  might not have 
been forthcoming with information about  its business model.  But that is not a reasonable 
basis for not making  reasonable enquires.  Further, if CL&P  was reluctant or refused to 
provide information  about its business model  or if its answers  were  ambiguous  and 
contradictory that ought to have been something in and of itself that made  Carey  concerned  
about the integrity and motivations of those operating CL&P.  As such, I think  this too should 
have led Carey to conclude that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment and that it 
would not be treating  Ms R fairly and in her best interests in accepting her introduction from 
CL&P.  
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think  in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Carey failed to conduct  
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before  accepting  business from it, and if it had carried  out 
proper due diligence,  it ought to have  concluded  that it should not accept any business from 
CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that 
Carey should not have  accepted Ms Rs application.
Further points  
Cash incentives 
In November 2011 Carey  became aware  of a number of consumers who had received 
incentive payments  to move their pensions to Carey.  Such payments are against the rules 
covering pensions and can attract a substantial  tax charge from HMRC.   On becoming 
aware of this Carey  spoke  to CL&P.  But I think it ought to have spoken  to consumers 
directly about this, not just to CL&P.  And  I think such action would have led to the 
conclusion that cash incentive payments were being  offered by CL&P. 
In the light of that, I think Carey ought to have concluded it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to accept any further  business from CL&P   whether that was new 
business or pipeline business consisting of applications accepted but not completed.  It 
should not therefore have  proceeded with Ms Rs application, in the light of this knowledge. I 
say this even  through Ms R was not paid a cash incentive  I think  Careys awareness of 
cash incentives should have led to conclude  it should  not proceed with all business brought  
to it by CL&P.  In  light of this serious allegation  I think Carey should  have questioned 
whether CL&P was a suitable and trustworthy firm to be dealing with. In my mind this should  
have been a significant red flag.  
Whilst these concerns came to light after Ms Rs application form had been received  it was 
before the switch  was processed and the investments  made  so Carey should  have  been  
concerned about  the actions of CL&P and halted  the switch  of Ms Rs pension.
I make  this further point  only for completeness.  For the reasons I have set out, I do not think  
Carey should have accepted Ms Rs application at all. 
Should Carey have proceeded regardless? 
the member declaration  and indemnities 
The member  declarations signed by Ms R give clear warnings about the high risk nature of 
the investment,  that she had taken her own advice and would not hold Carey responsible for 
any liability  resulting  from the investments. 
Ref: DRN906421722The main  point to make here is that Carey  should  never have accepted the business  from 
CL&P, for the reasons  given. So Ms R should  never  have got to the point of signing the 
member declarations, or the indemnities, as the business should  not have come  about at all. 
In any event, I dont think  these documents, in themselves, are sufficient for me to conclude 
that Carey acted fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Ms Rs instructions. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers  taking 
responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding  the 
aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been  cautious about accepting  Ms Rs 
application and because of the documents she had signed. There was no evidence of any 
other (than Carey) regulated party being involved in this transaction. In these  circumstances 
I think very little comfort could have  been  taken from a declaration  by Ms R that she hadnt 
taken advice and understood  the risks of the investments.    
Carey accepting business whilst  asking Ms R to sign documents  to absolve it of all 
responsibility was not treating Ms R fairly,  given what Carey ought to have known. Carey 
was the regulated entity here. It had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory  
obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view,  asking  Ms R to sign a declaration  
and an indemnity absolving it of all responsibility  when  it ought to have known that Ms Rs 
dealings with CL&P were  putting her at significant risk was not the fair and reasonable thing  
to do. It should  have  refused the business,  not gone  ahead regardless and asked Ms R to 
absolve it of the consequences. 
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Carey has made the point that COBS 11.2.19  R obliged  it to execute  investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is obligated to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. 
However, in the circumstances  it is my view that the crux of the issue  in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established  
Ms Rs SIPP  in the first place. And, for the reasons I set out above, it is my view that Carey 
should not have done so. 
This argument was considered and rejected by the judge in the recent case  of Berkeley 
Burke v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018]  EWHC 2878 (Admin) .  In this case  Jacobs J  
said:  
The heading  to COBS  11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders  
are to be executed:  i.e. on terms most  favourable to the client. This is consistent  with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely:  Best execution.  The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same  effect.  The expression when  executing  orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute  the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion  reached,  albeit 
in a different context,  in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras  [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order  should be 
Ref: DRN906421723executed at all. I agree  with the FCAs submission that COBS  11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client  orders, and is designed  to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors  that must  be taken  into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing  to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont  think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles  to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP  in the first 
place. 
In conclusion
All in all, I do not consider  that Carey acted  with due skill, care and diligence, organised and 
controlled its affairs responsibly, or treated  Ms R fairly or acted in her best interests  by 
accepting Ms Rs business from CL&P. To my mind, Carey did not meet its regulatory 
obligations, and allowed  Ms R to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.  
To be clear, I am not making  a finding  that Carey should have assessed  the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Ms R.  I accept Carey  had no obligation to give advice to Ms R or 
otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investments for her.  My finding is not 
that Carey should  have  concluded that the investments or SIPP  was not suitable  for Ms R.  It 
is that Carey did not meet  its regulatory obligations and should not have accepted  the 
business from CL&P. It failed to treat Ms R fairly  or act with due skill, care and diligence  or 
take reasonable care to organise  and control its affairs responsibly by doing  so. And, in the 
circumstances, it is fair and reasonable for Carey to be held responsible for its failings.
Is it fair to ask Carey  to compensate Ms R? 
In deciding whether  Carey  is responsible  for any losses that Ms R has suffered on her 
investments I need to look at what would have happened if Carey  had done  what  it should 
have done i.e. not accepted her application.  
Had Carey undertaken  sufficient due diligence before or at the time Ms Rs business  was 
introduced to it, it ought to have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. 
That should  have been the end of the matter  it should have told Ms R that it could not 
accept the business.  And I am satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement for Ms R 
would not have come about in the first place, and the loss she suffered would have been  
avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Ms R transferring out of her existing pension and 
into a SIPP.   For the reasons  I set out below  I am satisfied that, had the SIPP  application not 
been accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. 
Had Carey explained  to Ms R that it would not accept the application from CL&P I find it very 
unlikely that Ms R would  have tried to find another SIPP  operator  to accept the business. 
She is likely  to have had no trust in CL&P once she became aware Carey would not accept 
the business. In any event,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
be responsible  for its errors because another SIPP operator would have made the same  
mistakes. I think its fair instead to assume  that another SIPP  provider wouldnt have 
processed the transaction if it had carried out sufficient due diligence  in accordance with its 
own regulatory responsibilities and good  industry  practice. So again, I think  the end result 
would have been that Ms R would not have made  the investments or the transfer  from her  
existing pension that preceeded it. 
Ref: DRN906421724So I am satisfied that Ms R would not have  continued with the SIPP,  had it not been for 
Careys failings, and would have remained in her existing  schemes.   And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible  for initiating  the course of action that has led to her loss, I consider that 
Carey failed unreasonably  to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation  to do so.
In making these findings, I take account the potential contribution made by other parties  to 
the losses suffered  by Ms R. In my view, in considering what  fair compensation looks like in 
this case, it is reasonable to make an award against  Carey that requires it to compensate  
Ms R for the full measure of her loss. But for Careys  failings, Ms Rs pension transfer would 
not have occurred in the first place. 
I am not asking Carey  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have  caused the full extent of the loss in question.   That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  I am not able 
to determine.  However, that fact should  not impact on Ms Rs right to compensation from 
Carey for the full amount  of her loss.  
putting things right
My aim is to return Ms R in the position she would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate  due diligence checks before accepting  Ms Rs SIPP 
application from CL&P.  Since the loss is suffered in Ms Rs pension it is right that I try to 
restore the value  of her pension  provision if that is possible.    
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current  
position to the position  Ms R would be in if she had not switched from her original  pension.  In 
summary, Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Ms R has suffered as a result  of making the transfer. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment,  GAS Verdant and Walsall Burial  park 
investments if possible.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Ms Rs pension.   If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Ms R direct. In either case the payment should  take into 
account necessary  adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Carey, it should  have the option  of payment of this redress  being 
contingent upon Ms R assigning  any claim he may have against  CL&P,  to Carey. The terms 
of the assignment  should require Carey to account  to Ms R for any amount it subsequently  
recovers against CL&P that exceeds  the loss paid to Ms R. 
Ill explain  how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further  detail 
below:
1.Calculate the loss Ms R has suffered as a result  of making the transfer
Ref: DRN906421725To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Ms Rs pension as at the date of this 
decision, had she left it where  it was instead  of switching  to the SIPP.  
Carey should ask Ms Rs former pension provider to calculate the current  notional  transfer  
value had he not transferred her pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  index should  be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds  had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared  to the transfer  value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Ms R has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed  to have no value. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First, GAS Verdant and Walsall Burial  Park  investments
I understand Carey  has been able to take ownership  of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible.  If possible Carey  should 
take ownership of the GAS Verdant  and Walsall Burial Park investment.  Carey should 
calculate a commercial value for these investments, then pay that sum (plus  any costs  
involved) into the SIPP  and take ownership  of the investments. If Carey is unable to buy the 
investments then Carey  should give the investments a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation.
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First, GAS Verdant or Walsall Burial Park  
investments, they should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think  it is unlikely  
they will have any value  in the future.  I understand Ms R has the option of returning  her 
Store First investment to the freeholder for nil consideration.    
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP  and Ms R decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder she should  be aware  that she will be liable for all future costs associated  
with the investment such as the ongoing  SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. She should  also be aware  it is unlikely s will be able to make a further  
complaint about  these  costs. 
3.Pay compensation to Ms R for the loss she has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Ms R has suffered  is within her pension it is right that I try to restore  the value 
of her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible  the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension  should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover  the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Ms R could claim. The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Ms Rs marginal  
rate of tax.  
Ref: DRN906421726On the other hand, Ms R may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should  be paid to Ms R direct.  But  had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation for the loss paid to Ms R should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Ms Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Ms R is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms R would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms R has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of her pension benefits.  
This is money Ms R cannot afford to lose.  I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate 
to compensate for that upset
SIPP fees
The investigator said in his view that future SIPP fees should be waived. Whilst Store  First 
can be removed from the SIPP  I am not sure about  the GAS  Verdant investment and Walsall 
Burial Park.  If the SIPP  needs to be kept open  to hold either  of these  investments  then any 
future SIPP fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.  If the SIPP is kept open  
with only the Store First investment in it then Ms R shall be liable for the future costs 
associated with it.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within  28 days of the date Carey  receives  
notification of Ms Rs acceptance  of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that I uphold  Ms Rs complaint . Options  SIPP UK LLP 
should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before  24  May 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9064217