K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc refused an application to convert part of 
his mortgage to interest only terms. He thinks its illogical that NatWest said it would be 
unaffordable to pay less than hes paying  now.
background
Mr M has a mortgage with NatWest. It was taken out as a residential mortgage,  but Mr Ms 
not now living in the property and has consent  to let it out. 
In early 2019, he applied to convert one of the sub-accounts  on the mortgage to interest only 
to reduce his outgoings. NatWest considered the application, but refused it on the grounds of 
affordability.
Mr M complained. He didnt think NatWests  decision was fair  and, in particular, that it 
didnt make sense to say he couldnt  afford  to pay less so should keep paying more.  He also 
complained that as a result an application  for a new interest  rate hed made at the same time 
also didnt go through.
Mr M has three sub-accounts. He was applying for a new interest rate on sub-account 1, and 
to convert sub-account  2 to interest only.
NatWest said it hadnt  done anything wrong.  It had followed its policy and the mortgage 
rules. It had assessed his income and expenditure and didnt think the new payments on 
sub-account 2 would  be affordable  so it wasnt prepared  to make a change to the 
mortgage. However, it offered as a gesture of goodwill to backdate a new interest  rate on 
sub-account 1 to 1 February 2019.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think NatWest  had acted fairly. She said it 
should grant the application to switch  to interest  only. NatWest asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has a series of eligibility  criteria  for interest  only mortgages  including  loan to 
value, income levels,  and repayment  strategy.  
Ive looked at the decision it made and considered the underwriters notes  and internal 
emails. Having done so, Im satisfied that the underwriter agreed that, at the time, Mr M met 
all the other  criteria, and his application was refused solely on the grounds of affordability.
On that ground, Mr M has a point.  It doesnt seem logical for NatWest  to say that he cant  
afford monthly payments of around £1,500  so must continue to pay over £3,000. If the 
lower amount is unaffordable, then the upper amount must be too.
Mr M doesnt agree that either amount  is unaffordable. He explained to NatWest  that his 
most recent tax return shows  a lower figure than usual because  of how his income in that 
particular year had been  treated  but his take home  income was the same  as usual. 
Ref: DRN95153082Regardless of that, though, I dont think NatWest  gave  proper  consideration to the rules of 
mortgage regulation here. Its said that its policy is that applications for interest only 
mortgages must always pass all its criteria   including affordability.
But the rules of mortgage regulation say that where  an existing borrower wants to make a 
change to their mortgage which involves no further borrowing, an affordability assessment 
isnt necessary where theres no other change material to affordability.  A change to 
repayment type is deemed to be material to affordability  but even where there is such a 
change, a lender can still opt not to carry out an affordability assessment provided the 
change would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
NatWest appears to have  given no consideration to these rules  at all. It simply  carried out an 
affordability assessment   and, when that failed, refused the application without further  
consideration.
The rules  Ive referred to dont require a lender to agree to a change like this. But in my view 
NatWest should  at least have considered whether an affordability assessment was 
necessary, and whether the change  was nevertheless in Mr Ms best interests.  But it didnt 
do so.
Mr M has explained his reasons for wanting  the change. They are legitimate reasons which 
would have been worthy of at least consideration. And even if his reasons for making the 
change werent  deemed to be in his best interests,  theres a strong argument to say that 
NatWest should  still have allowed the change. It was satisfied that all its other criteria  
including repayment  strategy  were  passed.  Its only concern was affordability.  And in my 
view if NatWest was concerned about  whether  he could have afforded  the lower  payments, it 
should have been even  more concerned  about  whether he would continue to afford the 
higher payments if no change was made. Its hard to argue that its in his best interests to 
require him to make a higher  payment  because  he cant  afford  a lower one.
NatWest has also argued  that Mr M is now in breach  of the mortgage because  hes letting 
the property as a house  of multiple  occupancy (HMO)  rather  than to one household. That 
may or may not be so; I make no findings  either way here. I dont think  this is a relevant 
consideration, because theres been  no suggestion  that this was the case  at the time of the 
application  and so couldnt  have been a reason  for refusing  it. If NatWest believes that to 
be the case now, thats a question to take up with Mr M now.
I think NatWests  offer to backdate the rate on sub-account 1 is a fair one. Mr M says the 
other two sub-accounts  have now also reverted to the standard  variable rate  but Ive seen 
no evidence he applied  for new rates on those accounts.
It should also switch  sub-account  2 to interest only, also backdated to 1 February  2019.  This 
will mean that Mr M has made overpayments on both sub-accounts in the meantime. Those 
overpayments should be refunded to Mr M, or used  to reduce his mortgage  balance  as he 
chooses. I understand Mr M has recently taken  a coronavirus payment deferral; he may wish 
to use the overpayments to offset that.
Finally, our investigator recommended NatWest pay Mr M £200 compensation. I agree thats 
fair compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused by the way NatWest  dealt with 
his application.
Ref: DRN95153083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Grant the product  Mr M applied  for on sub-account  1, backdated to 1 February 2019;
Convert sub-account  2 to interest  only, also backdated to 1 February 2019;
Re-work both accounts  and give Mr M the option of either:
oHaving the overpayments made  each  month  since refunded  to him, adding 
simple annual interest of 8%*; or
oHaving the overpayments made  each  month  used to reduce the mortgage  
balance each month.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If NatWest thinks it should  deduct  income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it may do 
so. But it should give Mr M the necessary paperwork, if he asks for it, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if hes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN9515308