K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2009 to cover a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BOS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BOS didnt need  to tell Mr and Mrs 
R about the commission it received - But in any event BOS has offered to pay back some of 
the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs  to do anything more. Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BOS  made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt  have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Mr and Mrs Rs original mortgage was taken out 
10 years  before the policy  was sold and the policy covered unemployment only. So I 
think Mr and Mrs R wouldve  understood that they were applying  for PPI as a tailored 
choice was made to take unemployment cover  only rather  than cover for accident and 
Ref: DRN92553802sickness as well. And I think that they understood the policy was optional  as they didnt 
take PPI out when they first took out their mortgage.  
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example  Mr and Mrs R 
were eligible for the cover  and although  they had existing means they still seem  to have 
had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Rs employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. 
 Its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs R as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs R would  have declined the cover had BOS  done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs R would  have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Rs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Ref: DRN92553803Having done so Ive decided BOS  didnt need to disclose the commission  it received  but in 
any event BOS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres  nothing  more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs R should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  BOS failed to tell Mr and Mrs R about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, BOS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Rs PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BOS has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Rs case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BOS needed to tell Mr and Mrs R about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BOS  treated Mr and Mrs 
R unfairly. 
This means  BOS doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs R back  any of the commission  they paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event BOS  has offered to give back to Mr and Mrs R some of the cost of the PPI 
to compensate Mr and Mrs R as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think  it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN92553804out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
R. BOS should now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs R if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9255380