K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs O took out a credit card with RBS in 1999.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on her card for up to a year at a time if she 
wasnt able to work.
Mrs O makes a number  of complaints including that she was led to believe that shed have a 
better chance of getting the credit  card if she took the PPI. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Os complaint  should be upheld. Mrs O disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mrs O says that the sale took place in a branch of RBS. RBS cant  confirm the sales  channel 
but Im satisfied that Mrs Os recollection is correct.
Its nearly 20 years since the sale took place, so unsurprisingly theres  not much  information 
available about  what happened.  Neither  party has been able to provide copies of the 
documents used  in the sale.
RBS has provided copies to this service of the paperwork used for sales through various 
channels around  this time, and they show that the consumer would have  had a clear choice 
about taking the PPI. I cant  know what  was said to Mrs O during the meeting,  but RBS say 
the lending decision  wouldnt  have  been  affected  by whether Mrs O took the PPI or not.
On the very limited  information I have I think its most  likely  Mrs O was given  a choice about 
taking the PPI and decided  to buy it. 
RBS say it didnt  give Mrs O a personal  recommendation  about  the PPI. And this matches  
Mrs Os recollection  that she wasnt asked any details about her personal  circumstances by 
the adviser. So RBS didnt  have  to take any steps  to make sure the policy was right for Mrs 
O. But it did have to make sure it gave Mrs O all the information she needed about the PPI 
so she could make her own informed decision.
Its possible Mrs O wasnt given all the information she ideally shouldve had. But I dont 
think even if shed had all the necessary information  shed have acted differently and not 
bought the policy. I say this because:
Ref: DRN95931592Mrs O was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim;
Mrs O had sick pay from her employer.  But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
this and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted;
I think Mrs O wouldve  been  entitled  to some contractual redundancy pay, and she 
had a small amount  of savings.  But again,  the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
this, leaving her redundancy  pay and savings to cover other  uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable for 
Mrs O.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mrs O lost out as a result of anything RBS mightve  done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint so it follows that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9593159