K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to pay pension  benefits that 
were due to her in a timely manner.
background
Mrs Hs late son (Mr H) held pension  benefits  with Aviva in two separate policies. When  her 
son sadly and unexpectedly passed  away in January 2017  Mrs H contacted Aviva to request 
the payment of these pension benefits  to her, as she was the sole beneficiary.
Aviva begun its investigations into the circumstances of Mr Hs death and received the 
necessary documentation and claim forms from Mrs H in early  February.  But Aviva needed 
some further  information from both Mrs H and HM Coroner before  it could  complete its 
assessment. In early  March 2017  Aviva  considered  that it held sufficient information to make  
the payments  due to Mrs H.
The two pension plans  were administered in separate parts  of Aviva.  The benefits due from 
one of the plans were  paid to Mrs H almost immediately on 8 March  2017. But due to the 
levels of work being experienced  in the other processing area the second payment wasnt 
made until 19 April 2017. 
When Mrs H complained  to Aviva about  the time taken  to make the second payment it 
acknowledged the delays that Mrs H had experienced and the inconvenience and distress 
this might have caused her. Aviva  paid £200 to Mrs H in recognition of that. But Mrs H didnt 
think the payment  Aviva  had made had been  sufficient to resolve  her complaint. So she 
brought the complaint to this Service.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Whilst he sympathised 
with the additional upset  that the delays  had caused  to Mrs H he thought  that the payment 
Aviva had made had been reasonable. So he didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld.  
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
I would like to start this decision by passing  on my condolences to Mrs H for what must have 
been, and I am sure continues to be, an incredibly upsetting and difficult time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Ref: DRN98793932I have looked  carefully  at the information Aviva has given us about  the processes it 
undertook, and the checks  it needed  to make, before  it could pay the benefits due to Mrs H. 
As I said earlier Mr H died suddenly and unexpectedly. So it was necessary for Aviva  to 
liaise with HM Coroner  to understand more about  the circumstances of Mr Hs death. And 
since his investigations  were still on-going the coroner was unable to provide  Aviva with the 
information it needed. So, I understand at the behest of Mrs H, a member  of the police force  
also provided Aviva with some further  information. And it was on receipt of that information, 
in early March 2017, that Aviva was able to successfully authorise the payments to Mrs H. 
I dont think that the time taken by Aviva  to conclude these investigations was unreasonable.
I can see that Aviva made the payment due to Mrs H on one of the pension policies almost  
immediately. But there was a delay of just over a month before the payment due on the 
second policy was authorised and made.  Aviva  has explained this was due to the volumes  of 
work being processed in that team.
In deciding whether  to uphold this complaint I need  to consider whether Mrs H has lost out 
due to something Aviva did wrong. I havent  seen  anything  to make me think  that the value 
of the benefits  due to Mrs H was reduced as a result of this delay. I understand that Aviva  
would fix the benefit amount once it had received written notification of the death.  And 
whilst I appreciate that Mrs H didnt have the use of that money for almost a month  I havent  
seen anything that makes  me think this caused  a material loss.
But it is clear that this would have been a distressing time for Mrs H. And it doesnt seem  to 
me that Aviva was sufficiently responsive  to her requests for information about when the 
second payment  would be made, and why it was taking longer than the first. I would have 
expected that Aviva  would  have been more responsive at that time and ensured Mrs H was 
fully aware of what was happening. So I have no doubts that Aviva caused Mrs H additional 
trouble and upset  at what was already an extremely difficult  time.
Aviva has though already acknowledged that it fell short of the levels  of service it would 
expect to provide.  And it has accepted that this might  have  caused  inconvenience and 
distress to Mrs H. I think that the payment Aviva  has already made to Mrs H fairly reflects  the 
trouble and upset  she has been caused.  So Im not going to ask Aviva  to do anything further 
in relation to this complaint.
I understand that my decision will most likely cause additional upset to Mrs H and bring back 
memories of what is no doubt still a very difficult time. But I hope that my explanation, of why 
I think what Aviva has already done is reasonable, will help her bring some closure to this 
matter.
Ref: DRN98793933my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9879393