K820x#14complaint
Ms W acquired a car in October  2015,  by hire purchase with Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (VWFS).  She missed  monthly payments required under her hire purchase 
agreement in 2018 and 2019, and so her agreement  account fell into arrears.  
Ms W complains that VWFS terminated her agreement in May 2019,  and started  the process 
of repossessing her car. She wants VWFS to reinstate her agreement, to allow her to make  
payments she has missed, and not to repossess her car.
 
background
Ms W said:
She moved home  in 2018,  and notified her change  of address to the dealership 
where she acquired her car  but it appears  that the dealer did not pass this 
information on to VWFS
She missed two payments in early  2019,  but she received no correspondence  from 
VWFS
She had been  receiving nuisance calls at that time, which  meant she was reluctant to 
answer her phone,  and so she may not have answered calls made  to her by VWFS
She was contacted by a debt collection agency  in mid May 2019,  and told that her 
agreement was being cancelled  she phoned VWFS the next day to complain
Her missed payments were because of financial  difficulties
She also suffered  an accident in April 2019, and was awaiting a personal injury 
pay out
VWFS said:
It sent an arrears letter, relating to one missed monthly  payment,  to Ms W in 
May 2018
The last contact it received from Ms W before mid May 2019 was in June 2018
It sent arrears letters to Ms W in January, February and March  2019
Later in March 2019, it sent a default notice to Ms W, relating to three missed 
monthly payments
It wrote to Ms W, terminating  her agreement,  in mid May 2019  and she contacted it 
three days later
It did not take the decision to terminate lightly  it felt that it had acted fairly, and that 
its decision was the correct course of action for both it and Ms W.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld, saying she could  only ask 
VWFS to reinstate Ms Ws agreement,  if it had acted unfairly when it decided to terminate. 
And our investigator was unable to reach this conclusion. 
Ms W disagreed with our investigator. And so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
Ref: DRN98692252I share  our investigators view that VWFS could only be asked to reinstate Ms Ws 
agreement, if it had acted unfairly when it decided to terminate. And I note:
Ms Ws hire purchase agreement required her to make monthly payments  she 
breached that agreement  when  she did not do so, and VWFS was entitled  to take 
steps to remedy this situation. 
VWFS wrote  to Ms W at the address it had on file for her  it was unaware of her 
change of address,  and it was not its fault that it was unaware
VWFS was also not at fault if Ms W did not answer phone calls it may have made  to 
her
Like our investigator,  I sympathise with Ms W. She told us that she was in financial 
difficulties, and that she had recently  suffered an accident. 
But there was no evidence to show that Ms W had made VWFS aware of her circumstances, 
when she began in early 2019 to miss payments, or before it decided  in May 2019  to 
terminate her agreement  .And so VWFS was again not at fault, because it was unaware of 
these circumstances.
Ms W contacted VWFS in 2018,  soon after it wrote  to her about a missed monthly payment. 
Unfortunately, she did not contact  it again  when she moved home,  to notify  it of her change 
of address. This meant that she did not receive  the correspondence sent to her by VWFS, 
when she missed further monthly payments  in 2019.
But Ms W knew that she had missed these payments in 2019,  which  I think it is reasonable 
to assume that she knew her hire purchase  agreement required her to make.  And I think  it is 
also reasonable to expect  her to contact VWFS  again, whether or not she had received 
further correspondence from it. 
If Ms W had contacted VWFS  again, and if she had explained her personal  circumstances, 
then I would have  expected VWFS  to have taken  these circumstances into account,  and 
possibly to have  acted differently. But VWFS was actually faced with a lack of response to its 
attempts to contact  Ms W  and, in these circumstances, I am unable  to find that it acted 
unfairly when it terminated her agreement.
I understand that VWFS intends  to repossess Ms Ws car, but that it decided  to hold back 
from doing so while we have been  considering  her complaint. And I acknowledge this helpful 
decision.
Finally, I note that the terms  and conditions of Ms Ws agreement give her specific rights 
relating to repossession in certain circumstances. If these circumstances apply to Ms W, 
then I expect VWFS to respect  these rights in its future actions.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9869225