K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr G said he took the policy as the sales  person was pushy. Halifax  has said it would 
have made the optional  nature of the policy clear and would have  got Mr Gs consent to 
add the policy.  Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened  taking into account all the 
evidence thats available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application. I can see the option  for Credit 
Card Repayment Cover has been  selected. Mr G has also ticked and signed separately 
for the PPI further down on the application form. So I think this reflected what he wanted  
and if he didnt want the PPI he could have  left this section blank. 
Mr G has said he was pressured into taking  out this policy. Ive considered this alongside 
what Halifax say happened  during  this sale and what I know generally about how Halifax 
sold policies  around  this time. As this was a recommended sale I think  its likely that the 
representative may have  said that Mr G should take the PPI but thats  different to saying 
he must take it. And pressure is a subjective  area and what  one person thinks  is 
pressure another  may not. So without  stronger evidence of this I cant  safely uphold on 
this basis. 
So overall I think Halifax made Mr G aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and he agreed  to take the policy at the time.  
 
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what he has told us about his sick 
pay. Mr G has said he wouldve got six months  full sick pay before it was reduced to six 
months half sick pay. But this policy couldve paid Mr G a monthly benefit for up to 12 
Ref: DRN92006962months if he was unable to work and this wouldve been in addition  to any sick pay Mr G 
mightve had. It wouldve  also covered him if he lost his job for up to 12 months.  
Mr G also said he had some savings and a car he could have relied on if needed. But I dont  
think Mr G wouldve wanted to sell his car to make  the repayments on this credit card and 
the policy would have paid in addition to the limited  savings he had  so I think   he couldve 
found the policy useful. And these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9200696