K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
background
In April 2018 Mr G was supplied with a used car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Mr G says that within 3 days the car lost power and the engine management light and 
service light illuminated. He contacted the supplying dealer  and asked for the service history.  
The supplying dealer advised  Mr G to take the car to a local garage to have it repaired under 
warranty.
Mr G wasnt happy to use the garage suggested by the supplying  dealer because it was the 
same garage which was meant to have serviced the car the day before the point of supply. 
He also found  out that the repairs werent  covered by the warranty.
In July 2018 Mr G complained to Moneybarn about  the issues he was experiencing with the 
car. Moneybarn contacted  the supplying dealer who said it was aware of the issues and that 
it had advised  Mr G to take the car to one of its recommended garages to have  it repaired.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The report  concluded that the 
car had a fault which was likely to have been present at the point of supply.
Moneybarn sent the report to the supplying dealer, who replied  and said Mr G should  take 
the car to its recommended garage so that repairs could  be carried  out.
Mr G didnt take the car to the garage.  He told Moneybarn he had lost faith in both the 
supplying dealer and its recommended garage. He subsequently arranged for the car to be 
repaired at a third party  garage. He wants his repair costs reimbursed.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the supplying dealer should have been  
given the opportunity to repair the fault but that despite this it was reasonable for Mr G to use 
a third party garage because of the breakdown in the relationship  with the supplying  dealer. 
The investigator said that the evidence  suggested that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply  and recommended  that Mr Gs repair costs were refunded.
Moneybarn didnt agree.  It said it was willing  to contribute 50% of the repair costs as a 
goodwill gesture but said that under the relevant legislation  the dealership should have been 
allowed the opportunity to repair  the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn  has supplied the car under  a conditional sale agreement  theres an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality.  Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car to have a degree  of wear and tear. So in 
Ref: DRN96203042order to uphold the complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general  wear and tear.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether a fault was present  at the point of supply. 
In this case, an inspection was carried out by an independent engineer  who concluded that 
the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault presents itself within  the first 6 months, 
its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one opportunity 
to repair  the fault.  If the repair isnt successful the customer can reject the car.
In this case, the business asked Mr G to take the car to one of its approved  garages for 
repair. Mr G wasnt  willing to do this for a number of reasons, including:
He had lost faith in the supplying dealership and its approved repairer
He was unable  to get the car to the garage  suggested by the dealer as he had been  
advised not to drive  it
He wasnt prepared  to arrange transportation  at his own expense
In response to the latter, Moneybarn offered to arrange collection of the car. But Mr G still 
wasnt happy to use the approved repairer.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Mr G to have the car repaired by a third 
party garage. Looking at the issues Mr G had experienced,  including  the illumination of the 
service light on a car which was meant to have been serviced by the approved  repairer, I 
understand why he was reluctant to take the car to the same  garage for repairs.  I also 
accept Mr Gs testimony that his relationship with the supplying dealer  had broken  down  due 
to (amongst other things) the delay in providing the service history,  the doubt  over whether a 
service had been carried out, the incorrect recording of the mileage and the fact that the car 
had been supplied with faults.
Taking all of these points into consideration, and even though Moneybarn offered to arrange 
transportation of the car, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to be reluctant to have the car 
repaired at this particular  garage.
So whilst I agree that the relevant legislation says that the business should be allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault, I think that in the circumstances  the business could have done 
more to take account of Mr Gs concerns  about this particular garage  which  was being  
suggested by the supplying dealer. Moneybarn could have suggested  alternative  garages to 
Mr G. I cant see that this happened. 
Because of this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr G to arrange for repairs to be 
carried out at a third party  garage. Theres no evidence that the third party  garage carried 
out repairs which went beyond the repairs necessary to fix the fault. Nor is there any 
evidence to suggest that the costs charged by the third party  garage are excessive.
Taking all of the circumstances into account  Im of the view that Moneybarn  should 
reimburse Mr G for his repair costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Moneybarn No.1 Limited should:
Ref: DRN96203043Reimburse Mr Gs repair costs of £682.25
Pay simple interest  at 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay £100 compensation to Mr G for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620304