K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a regular  premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Mrs W has been represented throughout her complaint. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2009 at the same  time as taking out a loan. Lloyds say the loan 
and PPI were sold over the phone.  
The loan was for £5,000  over 54 months. The monthly cost of the PPI was £32.04.  The PPI 
protected Mrs Ws loan repayments if she was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, or if she lost her job. In the event of successful  claim for an accident  or sickness  
the PPI would have covered Mrs Ws loan repayments for up to the remaining term of the 
loan. And for a successful unemployment claim it would have paid out for up to 12 months  
for any one claim.
Mrs W thinks the PPI was mis-sold.  Lloyds disagreed. Unhappy, Mrs W referred  her 
complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
In reviewing this complaint, I note Mrs W had an earlier loan, taken  out in 2007. I can see 
that Lloyds offered compensation  on this loan which was accepted in November 2015.  
Mrs Ws representatives have confirmed that this complaint is only in relation to the second 
loan taken in 2009.
So to be clear, within this decision, I am only looking at the sale of the PPI policy  in 2009.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The loan agreement  included  a Loan Protection insurance  Statement of Price  section.  In 
this section Mrs W had to tick to indicate  she wanted the PPI and sign separately to the 
credit agreement to confirm her choice.  Within this section it also set out that the PPI was 
optional and how much  the monthly  cost of the PPI was. So, overall I think Lloyds  made it 
clear that Mrs W didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And she also seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN90905512I appreciate that Mrs W says she received good benefits from her employer if she was 
unable to work. But the PPI would have paid out at the same time as Mrs W was receiving  
any sick pay and for longer. It would have paid out for the term of the loan if she was off 
work sick. And it would have covered  the repayments for up to 12 months per claim if she 
lost her job. It also included life cover. 
Mrs W also says she didnt have any savings or other insurance policies in place that she 
could have used  to help meet her repayments if she was out of work for a lengthy period. 
So, all things considered,  I think it provided a useful  benefit.
The monthly cost of the policy  was shown on the loan agreement.  So I think  Mrs W would  
have understood  how much  she would need  to pay for it. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But as explained 
above, Mrs W doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those things. So I dont think 
having better information about these things would  have put her off taking out the PPI.
All things  considered, based on the information  I have regarding  the sale, the PPI policy and 
Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because  in 2017, following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds, in light of the FCAs rules  and guidance, looked at Mrs Ws PPI policy. Lloyds said 
that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair relationship.  So 
to put things right it offered to refund  the extra Mrs W paid each month for the time the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It also offered 
8% per year simple  interest to compensate Mrs W for any time she was out of pocket.  
Mrs W says she should  get back a higher percentage of the commission. But in this case 
Lloyds has made Mrs W an offer of compensation in relation to the level of commission  it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.
So Lloyds has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ref: DRN90905513Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Ws particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Lloyds  to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs W any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mrs W the extra she paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mrs W 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9090551