K821x#15complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr A used to have with West Bromwich  Building Society 
(WBBS). The mortgaged property was repossessed  and sold because of arrears. Mr A 
complains that WBBS  sold it for less than it was worth. Hes now being  pursued for the 
resulting shortfall.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 12 March  2020, which is attached  below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties by 2 April 2020. 
Both parties  have replied.
WBBS was disappointed  by my findings  but didnt challenge them.  It did ask for clarification 
on whether the £200 compensation was to be paid directly to Mr A or deducted from the 
outstanding shortfall.  The investigator  reiterated that it was to be paid to him directly;  WBBS 
didnt comment further.
Mr A responded to say, in summary:
he still didnt understand why the valuation of £138,000  that he obtained  the year prior to 
the possession  should be disregarded;  
the valuations  should have reflected the condition  of the property as it was when he left 
it, not how it was after having fallen into disrepair, including having the carpets removed; 
and
I hadnt dealt  with how WBBS had reported  the debt on his credit file. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses from both 
parties to my provisional  decision,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having  done so, Im not persuaded I need depart from my provisional 
conclusions, but I will address Mr As comments regarding the property value and credit file 
reporting. 
My provisional decision explained in some  detail the steps WBBS was required to take in 
order to assess how much  to market the property for. Its duty was to commission  current  
valuations from professionally-qualified  independent parties. WBBS was entitled to rely on 
the opinions of those parties; it didnt have to rely on Mr As opinion, or that of the agent hed 
engaged the previous year.
As far as the condition of the property is concerned, all three  of the valuations  commissioned 
by WBBS reported the property as requiring a deep  clean and/or fumigation  to rid it of 
persistent odour; attributed  in one case to dog faeces. This may explain why the carpets 
were removed. My remit doesnt  extend  to questioning the content of the reports. These 
were the professional opinions of the parties WBBS was required  to consult. It was entitled 
to rely on those opinions when  deciding  how much to try and sell the property for. 
Lastly, Ive said that WBBS must re-work Mr As credit file alongside the re-working  of the 
post-sale shortfall  to reflect  what it would have been  if a sale had competed on 
Ref: DRN9312175211 August 2014  for £95,000. Insofar,  as that will result in Mr As credit file looking different 
from how it does now, theres  no further finding for me to make here. 
When amending  Mr As credit file, WBBS  will have to follow  the provisions of the 
General Data Protection Regulation. If Mr A remains unhappy with what  is reported after the 
changes have been made,  hell be at liberty to make  a fresh complaint. I hope that wont be 
necessary but if it is and Mr A isnt happy with the outcome, then hell be able to refer that 
complaint to us. If that happens,  we will first of all decide whether we or the Information  
Commissioners Office  is the most  appropriate  body to deal with that complaint. 
All that leaves me to do is to reiterate what I said in my provisional  decision about the validity 
of the residual debt after this complaint has been  settled, and that both parties should 
engage in a positive dialogue, looking  forwards rather than backwards. 
my final decision
My final decision, for the reason set out above and below, is that I uphold  this complaint in 
part. In full and final settlement, I order  West Bromwich  Building Society to: 
re-work the post-sale  shortfall on Mr As mortgage to reflect what it would have been  
if a sale for £95,000 had completed on 11 August 2014;
amend Mr As credit file to reflect the re-work;  and
pay Mr A £200 compensation.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93121753CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  a mortgage Mr A used to have with West Bromwich Building Society 
(WBBS). The mortgaged property was repossessed and sold because of arrears. Mr A complains 
that WBBS sold it for less than it was worth. Hes now being pursued for the resulting shortfall.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex. Ive read everything,  and 
have summarised events  in rather less detail than has been presented, using my own words  and 
rounding some of the figures.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service 
we provide, and if I dont  mention something, it wont  be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I 
didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral or, in some instances,  have little or no 
impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr As property was taken into possession  in 2014 due to arrears. WBBS sold the property for 
£82,500; after the costs of sale had been taken into account, the net sale proceeds were  credited to 
the mortgage account. Unfortunately, they didnt cover the whole of the outstanding debt; there was a 
shortfall of about £39,000.  WBBS told Mr A he was liable for the shortfall and asked for his repayment 
proposals.
Mr A believes  the property  was under-sold;  hes said that the year before, hed been in touch  with a 
local estate agent who had valued the house at around £138,000. He says that if WBBS  had sold the 
property for a fair price,  there wouldnt be a shortfall; in fact, WBBS would owe him money. Hes also 
unhappy with how the shortfall has been reported on his credit file.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt agree  with Mr A that the estate 
agents figure  from 2013 had any bearing  on what a fair selling price should have been.  Nor did she 
think WBBS had done anything wrong in the way it had reported  on Mr As credit file.
But she noted  that WBBS  had rejected an offer of £95,000  several months before it accepted the offer 
of £82,500 at which the sale eventually went through. She thought it should  have accepted that 
earlier, higher  offer. She recommended WBBC re-calculate Mr As shortfall  to reflect  what  it would 
have been if the offer of £95,000 had been  accepted.  She also recommended  WBBS amend the 
figures reported on Mr As credit  file to reflect the re-worked shortfall, and pay him £200 compensation 
for his time and trouble.
Our file records  show  that in a phone conversation on 25 November 2019, Mr A told the investigator  
he was happy with her proposal for resolving  the complaint. Hes not said anything  to us in writing to 
suggest otherwise, despite  having had plenty of time to do so.
Meanwhile WBBS responded by saying  it didnt agree that rejecting  the offer of £95,000 was a 
mistake. It argued that there was evidence at that time that the property could be worth  more. It said 
that viewpoint was vindicated by the fact that it did subsequently receive higher offers, albeit they 
didnt proceed to a sale.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded this should change her mind, and so WBBS has asked for the 
compliant to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN93121754my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator  of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal  processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the 
courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides  instructions on how we investigate a complaint. 
We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If the available evidence  is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach  
our findings  on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same  test that the courts use in civil cases.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point  its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont  think  I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think  is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
The starting  point here is that WBBS duty was to sell the property for the best price  achievable within 
a reasonable period  of time (my italics). It may be a rather subjective test but the approach we take, in 
essence, is that a lender  shouldnt sell for too low a price  to achieve a quick sale or unduly  delay a 
sale (thus potentially  adding further to the borrowers  interest costs)  to achieve  an unrealistically  high 
price.
Its about finding  a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are required to 
obtain a minimum of two independent valuations from suitably-qualified professionals  - typically a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) - and then to market  the property 
with a view to achieving  a selling price at, or close to, the valuations provided by those independent  
professionals.
WBBS did obtain two valuations, but they were dramatically different from each other; £70,000  (later 
revised to £80,000) and £110,000 respectively. To try and establish which of these was anomalous, 
WBBS commissioned a third valuation,  which came in at £75,000. Working on the basis that this 
suggested the £110,000  valuation was the outlier, WBBS put the house up for sale at £85,000. What 
happened next, rather surprisingly, is that someone offered £112,000; this was in May 2014 and, 
unsurprisingly, WBBS accepted  that offer.
However, that buyer reduced the offer price to £104,000 as potential problems  with the property came 
to light that would have required some expense to put right. On 9 June 2014, the offer was reduced 
again, to £95,000.  WBBS rejected that offer (even though it was still £10,000 over the asking price) 
and instead re-marketed the house at £105,000. This was in July 2014.
Over the summer, offers ranging from £98,500 to £106,500 came in, but each of them  foundered 
when the potential buyer decided the house needed too much costly remedial work. In October 2014, 
WBBS reduced the asking price to £95,000 and then again to £85,000 on 17 November  2014.  The 
following month,  WBBS accepted an offer of £82,500 and completion of the sale happened in 
February 2015.
WBBS justifies its decision  to reject  the offer of £95,000 in June 2014,  by reference to the Mortgage 
and Home Finance:  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB);  the regulations that govern  
mortgage administration.  I understand WBBS position but its important to remember that following 
the regulations,  on its own, isnt a defence  against  unfair treatment.  Ultimately I have to decide if 
WBBS treated Mr A fairly, not whether it followed the regulations  to the letter.
Ref: DRN93121755In making that assessment,  I dont consider  Mr As argument  about  the property being  worth around 
£138,000 in 2013 has any bearing on the outcome. The limited evidence on this doesnt point to it 
being a detailed report from a RICS member. Theres no basis to say WBBS should have relied on it 
when deciding  how much to market the property  for. 
It was reasonable for WBBS  to rely on the opinions  of the independent professionals it consulted,  and 
given that this initially  produced a wide disparity, obtaining a third opinion was the right thing to do. 
Given the outcome  of that exercise,  Im satisfied that setting the initial asking price at £85,000  was fair 
and reasonable. 
Its probably fair to say that WBBS would  not have expected  to receive, and was caught  unaware by, 
an offer of £112,500 on a property with an asking  price of £85,000. Accepting  it was undoubtedly the 
right thing to do in that moment; but as time went by, and the buyer gradually  began to bring the offer 
price down to a figure closer to the asking price,  I think WBBS then mis-judged the situation. 
I dont mean  this unkindly,  but I get the impression WBBS became distracted into thinking  the outlier 
valuation of £110,000 might  be sustainable  after all. I think  that was a wrong call; offers  at higher 
prices may have come, but they soon went again. The inescapable reality is that in June 2014, WBBS 
rejected an offer that was £10,000 more than its asking price at the time.  It was also more  than 
£6,000 higher than the mean average of all three RICS valuations (£75,000 + £80,000 +£110,000 
divided by three equals £88,333). 
The result  was that WBBS delayed the sale by six months (during which  time the mortgage debt 
continued to attract interest) and eventually sold the property for £12,500 less than it could have done 
six months earlier. By any reasonable analysis, that resulted in WBBS treating Mr A unfairly.  
To ensure  a fair outcome,  the re-working of the shortfall that our investigator recommended  must 
reflect the fact that if WBBS had accepted the offer of £95,000  in June 2014, its reasonable to 
conclude the sale would have completed sooner than it did. That would  have a significant bearing  on 
the revision of the shortfall, not just because of the higher selling price but the shortening  of the period 
during which the outstanding debt was live  and attracting interest.
Of course, I cant be sure when a sale would have completed if the 9 June 2014 offer had been 
accepted; all I can do is impute a notional date for the basis of the recalculation that I agree WBBS 
must do. Taking a broad brush approach, the actual sale took approximately two months to progress 
from offer to completion. Using that as an indicator,  and taking  account of when the weekends fell, the 
notional completion date that I have decided  should be used for re-working the shortfall  is 11 August 
2014.
If the complaint is settled  as Im proposing  it should be, there will still be a shortfall; itll be less than it 
is presently, but it will still exist, and to be clear, WBBS is legitimately entitled to seek  reasonable  
repayment proposals  from Mr A. WBBS will also know that it has a duty to treat Mr A fairly in any 
discussions they have. But expecting Mr A to engage with it and come to an agreement  isnt unfair, 
even if he finds it unwelcome. 
Id encourage Mr A to engage positively  with WBBS  without  recrimination over what has gone before. 
Ive seen a suggestion that he has said hes prepared  to declare  himself bankrupt  if WBBS  continues  
to pursue him. Its not for me to tell Mr A what he must do; but Id urge him, if he hasnt already, to get 
some proper advice from a debt charity before he embarks  on a course of action that has the potential  
to bring him more problems than it solves.
Ref: DRN93121756my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties by 2 April 2020,  is that I intend 
to uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, it is my intention to order West Bromwich 
Building Society to: 
re-work the post-sale shortfall  on Mr As mortgage to reflect  what it would have been if a sale 
for £95,000 had completed on 11 August 2014;
amend Mr As credit  file to reflect the re-work; and
pay Mr A £200 compensation.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 2 April 2020. Neither party  need repeat  anything 
theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9312175