K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage debt Miss M owes to Lloyds  Bank PLC. Shes  unhappy 
that Lloyds registered adverse information  on her credit file during a period when she 
maintains she was trying to make payments but the bank wouldnt provide  her with the 
means to do so. To settle the complaint, Miss M wants the adverse entries  removed from her 
credit file.
background
The debt in question  was the result  of an agreement reached in court  in May 2013 to resolve 
a dispute between Miss M and Lloyds over a previous mortgage  shed held with her former 
partner. That agreement, and the events that led to it, arent part of what Im deciding  here;  I 
mention them merely  for context.
Under the agreement, Miss M owed Lloyds £30,000,  which would be repaid by monthly  
payments of £100.  However, other than a cheque credit of £685  in November 2013 (which  
was later revealed to be a payment  from the banks solicitors which was credited to the 
mortgage in error)  the monthly payments didnt start until October  2015.  Since  that time, 
Miss M has not only kept up the payments but caught up the ones she missed. 
The crux of the complaint is about what happened between May 2013 and October  2015,  
during which  period  there was extensive correspondence between  the bank and Miss Ms 
solicitors. Her case was that Lloyds didnt provide her with a direct debit to make the 
payments despite  repeated requests over the two-year  period. Lloyds says it did send her a 
direct debit mandate, but also told her in correspondence of other ways  she could pay.
The adjudicator who looked at the complaint thought  there  was fault on both sides. For the 
period up to December  2014, he considered that Lloyds hasnt done enough to enable  Miss 
M to make the payments.  But from December  2014 onwards, he was of the view that Miss M 
was aware she could make payments by means other than as direct debit and should have 
done so. He recommended the complaint be settled by Lloyds removing the adverse entries 
from Miss Ms credit  file up to December 2014  and paying her £250 for her time, trouble and 
upset.
Lloyds agreed  to this, and initially  so did Miss M. But she subsequently changed her mind 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She still believes Lloyds  
should clear her credit file for the entire  period.
my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
Ref: DRN94603672matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  I assure  the 
parties that Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments (including  Miss Ms 
most recent emails) to decide  whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
All thats  left for me to decide  here is whether the adverse entries on Miss Ms credit file from 
December 2014  to November 2015  should remain. Im satisfied the adjudicator was right 
when he concluded  Miss M had sufficient information to make  the payments; the letters 
Lloyds sent her from December 2014 told her everything she needed  to know.  Miss Ms 
defence, in essence, is that her solicitors  advised her not to make  payments whilst they 
sought a new agreement with Lloyds that would deal with the damage  to her credit  file. 
Ive given that a lot of thought; I appreciate  Miss M was acting on advice. But deliberately 
withholding payments that are required under the terms of a contract  as a protest against 
how the lender  is treating you is never a good  idea.  Miss M says repairing the damage to her 
credit file was the single most important thing  to her. But continuing not to make payments 
when she was able to could only ever make  things worse, not better.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Lloyds Bank  PLC to:
remove the adverse  entries placed  on Miss Ms credit file between  May 2013 and 
December 2014 inclusive; and
pay Miss M £250.
I make  no other order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460367