K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited ("VWFS") mishandled 
the setting  up of a second  financial agreement for a new car following his rejection of 
another  car that was faulty.
background
In September 2014 Mr M acquired  a new car via a hire purchase agreement  with VWFS.  
This agreement was for four years and Mr M part exchanged  his old car for £3150 and 
paid a further £250 towards the deposit - making a total of £3400.
Unfortunately the car developed a fault with the first few months and Mr M had to take it 
in for repairs. Over  the following months  the car continued to have issues  and following a 
further visit to the garage  in July 2015  Mr M complained that the problem with the engine 
was still not repaired.
The dealership says that although  it didn't  accept Mr M had a right to reject  the car it did 
agree, as a gesture  of goodwill, for Mr M to exchange it for another  car. It says it 
reached  this view because it accepted it couldn't repair Mr M's original car in a timely  
manner.
The dealership says that in August 2015  it was agreed with Mr M that he would 
exchange his existing  car for a new one of a different make. A new hire purchase 
agreement was drawn- up for the second car. The dealership says it treated the first car 
as a "trade-in" for the second  car. This meant  it took into account the fact the car had 
depreciated in value  as it was now a year old and had been used by Mr M. And there  
had also been a small negative equity on the first car of £238.33.  The dealership  made a 
£2000 contribution towards the second car and Mr M also paid £500  towards - making  a 
total deposit of £2,261.67.
Mr M signed the documentation for the second car. However when that car was coming 
up to three  years old Mr M requested  a settlement figure. He was given one, and thought  
it was too high.  So he queried with VWFS  why the deposit for the second car hadn't  
been the same figure as in the first agreement.
VWFS told Mr M that this was a matter for the dealership  to handle as it hadn't been part 
of the discussions about returning the car and taking out a second agreement for another  
car. 
Mr M was unhappy at VWFS's response  and complained to this service.  He said he 
thought  he'd been misled  on the point that the deposit he'd paid for the first car wasn't 
transferred in full to the second  agreement. 
He also said he'd paid £400 for a sat-nav  SD card for the first car that he'd been  unable  
to use in the second. Mr M said hed like to also be reimbursed for this cost.
Our investigator recommended that Mr M's complaint should be upheld. She said that VWFS  
had a responsibility to deal with Mr M's complaint as the first car appeared to have been  
faulty from the point of sale. She said it was unclear  why Mr M's full deposit hadn't been  
transferred from the first to the second agreement, as he'd rejected the first car for not being  
of satisfactory quality. And had this been processed correctly then the full deposit would've  
been used towards to second car.
Ref: DRN97320522She said it would be fair for VWFS  to reimburse Mr M the outstanding £1,138.33 that 
hadn't  been  transferred from the first to the second credit agreement.
She also said that as Mr M had bought the sat-nav SD card solely for use in the first car 
then it was also fair for that cost to be reimbursed as it was of no use to him in the second. 
She said VWFS should reimburse  that amount once Mr M had given back  the SO card.
VWFS disagreed with our investigator's view. It disputed it had any responsibility to Mr M as 
the dealership, and not it, had handled the rejection  of the first car and the drawing- up of 
the second agreement.
The complaint was passed to me as the parties were unable  to agree.  I issued  a provisional  
decision  along  the following  lines.
I'd been provided by the dealership with copies of emails between it and Mr M from the time 
the first car was handed back and the second agreement had been drawn up. I'd also seen 
the repair history of the first car. I appreciated  that the evidence  I'd seen  wasn't complete as, 
due to the passage of time,  notes and phone  calls were no longer  available.  However,  what  
Id seen  had been helpful. This was information that hadn't been seen by our investigator.
From the evidence  I'd seen I thought it was agreed that the first car had developed a 
significant problem  with its engine  within  a few months of Mr M acquiring it. The dealership 
dealt with Mr M and had agreed that this car could be handed back.
I'd seen that the dealership said that it didn't  agree that Mr M could formally reject the 
car, but rathe r took it back as a gesture of goodwill. However,  I thought it was more  likely 
than not that as the car had a problem that required a major repair that most  people  
would think that officially handing  the car back,  as opposed to it being accepted  back as a 
gesture of goodwill, was the equivalent  of rejecting it for not being  of satisfactory  quality.
As Mr M had acquired the first car in 2014 the Sales of Goods Act 1979 applied.  This Act 
says  that goods that are supplied  must be of satisfactory quality, and if goods are found to 
be faulty within the first six months then there is a presumption the fault was present at the 
point  of sale. The onus then falls on to the retailer to either refund the cost,  or repair or 
replace  those goods.
It appeared from the evidence that repairs were carried  out on the first car but the 
issue  wasn't  resolved and so the dealership offered to replace it. From the email 
exchanges  between  Mr M and the dealership, I think Mr M was happy to have  the car 
replaced.
Under the Supply  of Goods Act (Implied Terms)  Act 1973, if the goods are purchased via 
a hire purchase agreement then it is the finance company, in this case VWFS,  who has 
the legal liability to resolve the matter if theres something wrong with them.  So I didn't 
agree  that Mr M couldn't make a complaint about VWFS  regarding  the second agreement 
and the failure to transfer all of his original deposit.
Mr M said that he reluctantly changed  the make and model of the car to a different one. The 
dealership said that it was Mr M who requested this change. I'd seen  from emails between  
Mr M and the dealership  that Mr M was happy with the second car and described it as the 
virtually the "same spec" as the original one, save for the lack of sat-nav. So I didn't think Mr 
Ref: DRN97320523M was disappointed  with his new car. I also thought that if he had been then it would've 
been  reasonable to have expected  him to raise that issue at the time.
The dealership treated the first car as a trade-in for the second car. It said that Mr M had to 
cover "usage" as the car was nearly a year old by the time he handed it back,  and had 
depreciated in value.
I've seen from the evidence that Mr M had been able to use the car in the time he had it. 
The agreement  had a mileage limit of 12,000 miles  per year and in July 2015 the car had a 
mileage of around 10,000. So, although slightly short of 1000 miles  per month,  it was close. 
So I'm satisfied that Mr M was able to enjoy fair use of the car, and that VWFS shouldn't be 
liable to pay back  any of the monthly  payments made under the agreement by Mr M during  
that time.
As Mr M handed the car back due to the repairs it required I thought it was fair and 
reasonable to expect  that he wouldn't suffer any financial  detriment  when  he then took out 
the second  agreement to replace it.
The dealership said it hadn't transferred the deposit paid by Mr M on the first car to the 
second car as it was eaten-up by the first car's value depreciating. Instead it said as a 
gesture of goodwill it paid £2,000 towards the second car and requested  Mr M pay a further  
£500. The dealership  also says it applied a heavy discount to the value of the second car, 
which allowed  Mr M to have a new car as a replacement - for virtually  the same monthly 
payments as hed already  been  making.
I'd seen from the second car's invoice  that it was discounted by £2,054.17 and that a 
finance deposit  of £2,000  was paid. The dealership explained that there were no promotions 
available on that model of car at the time and that the discount was the car being  passed on 
at "cost" to Mr M. This meant that the dealership waived their "profit  margin"  and had made  
nothing on selling the car on to Mr M.
I'd seen from copies of emails between Mr M and the dealership  that there had been 
discussions  with Mr M about how the costings of the second agreement had been reached.  
So I thought the second car's costs  had been explained to Mr M in some detail, and 
during those  discussions I'd seen it was also agreed that the £500 paid by Mr M towards 
the second  car would be reimbursed.
So I was satisfied  that the second car had been discounted by £2,054 and that the 
dealership had also paid a further £2,000 towards  the deposit. It had later returned the 
£500 Mr M had contributed towards the second car, meaning that a total of £4,554 had 
been provided towards the new car. Although  I appreciated the £2,054 cost wouldn't  
necessarily have been fixed at that amount for every  car sale,  taking the discount and 
deposit payment into account, I couldn't  reasonably  say that Mr M had disadvantaged by 
the second  agreement.
I was surprised  at Mr M's delay in making this complaint.  The agreement for the second 
car, which he'd signed, had shown the figures and size of the deposit. I'd seen from the 
emails that hed queried this with the dealership at the time and that theyd provided  a 
response. I thought it wouldve been reasonable to presume that he was happy with what 
theyd said as hed confirmed his agreement with the deal. I didn't have  any evidence  that 
he was misled by the dealership.  And Mr M hadn't raised the matter  about this agreement  
again for a further  three years.
Ref: DRN97320524Looking at the matter of the sat-nav SD card, I'd seen the purchase price of that had been 
included in the credit agreement for the first car. The dealership said that this feature was 
taken into account when the value  of the car had been assessed in July 2015. However, it 
appeared that the SO card hadnt been handed  back with the car as Mr M still had it in his 
possession.  Mr M said he was told to remove  it before handing the car back. I was satisfied 
that as the dealership  had already discounted the second car by more than the original  
deposit, and as Mr M had been  able to use this feature for nearly a year, that no 
reimbursement  was due for this.
So, looking  at all of the available  evidence, I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr M's complaint. I 
thought the dealership had acted fairly in setting up the second agreement. It had consulted 
with Mr M who had been happy to accept and sign it. So I didn't intend to ask VWFS to do 
any more.
Mr M disagrees  with my provisional  view.  He says  that none  of the finance  documents  
provide  an explanation  as to where  his original  deposit  of £3,400  went  to when  the second  
agreement  was drawn-up.  And that there  are also missing  documents  and records  of 
phone  calls.  As a result,  he says  this means  the evidence  is contradictory  and unclear.
Mr M feels  strongly  that the process  that set up the agreement  for the second  car has 
been  unethical,  unorthodox  and confusing  - leading  him to conclude  that its likely  to 
amount  to mis-selling.  He says  VWFS  shouldnt  have  treated  a car that was returned  for 
not being  of a satisfactory  condition  as a trade-in  for the second  car.
He says  VWFS  shouldve  moved  his full deposit  from the first car directly  over to the 
second  car - and its failure  to do so has meant  he has lost out in terms  of interest  
payments.
Mr M says  the evidence  is contradictory  as to who supplied  the £2,000  towards  the down  
payments  for the second  car, but in any event  this amount  was available  to all new 
customers  as a promotional  offer.
Mr M says  he always  had concerns  over the figures  and the reference  to full and final 
settlement  of your complaint  in an email  between  him and the dealership  referred  only to 
the agreement  to repay  Mr Ms £500  contribution  to the second  car that hed queried  later.
Mr M says  that my criticism  of him as to any delay  in making  his complaint  is unfair.  He 
says  it was only when  after hed asked  for a settlement  figure  for the second  car that hed 
learned  about  the difference  in the deposits  on the two agreements.  As hed thought  the 
settlement  figure  on the second  car was too high hed requested  the End  of Contract  
Customer  Data  Sheet  and this had shown  the deposit  for the second  car was £2,261.67.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly  that the dealership has behaved in an underhand 
manner when arranging  the second financial  agreement. While VWFS, who is responsible  
for the actions of the dealership, says that Mr M was treated fairly.
Ref: DRN97320525I agree  with Mr M that the dealership shouldnt have treated  the returning of the first car as a 
trade-in for the second car - as this has led to confusion  for Mr M about the approach it took. 
Ive seen that the first car was faulty and had needed significant  repairs  which was why the 
dealership agreed  to take it back.  
When a car is rejected , then the agreement  is unwound and any deposit  is repaid. However,  
a retailer is entitled  to seek payment for usage  of the car by the consumer  in the time 
before its handed  back. This means  that monthly payments made under the agreement may 
not be reimbursed if the consumer has been  able to use the car while it was in their 
possession.
Here I saw Mr M had the first car for around 10 months and had driven about 10,000 miles in 
that time.  Im still satisfied this demonstrates  that Mr M had reasonable use of the first car 
and that reimbursement  of any monthly payments  wouldnt have been  fair and proportionate.
So the issue  for me to decide was whether  the dealership, and therefore  VWFS, had caused 
Mr M any financial detriment in the way it had arranged  the second  agreement.
As I explained, due to the passage time much of the evidence about  the contact between  Mr 
M and the dealership is no longer available. But on the evidence Ive seen, Im still satisfied 
that Mr M was content to take out the second  agreement for a different car.
Mr M says the paper work doesnt set out what happened to the original deposit. The 
dealership says there were discussions with Mr M and that by treating the first car as a 
tradein this meant his deposit was eaten up by the cars depreciation in value over the time 
hed had it in his possession. 
As the dealership didnt treat the car as rejected, nor the original contract as unwound, then 
the paperwork for the second agreement wont show an audit trail for the original deposit. So 
the figure of £3,400 wont appear. However, as I set out in my provisional decision above, 
this didnt mean that Mr M has suffered financially  over the actions by the dealership.  
Ive seen that a payment of £2,000 was put towards the car by the manufacturer - and 
although I appreciate there was some confusion  as to the source  of that money (there  was a 
suggestion that the dealership had paid it) this sum was put towards Mr Ms new car.
Mr M says this payment  wasnt a goodwill gesture  specifically for him but an offer that was 
open to all new customers purchasing cars of this make. He has provided an advert  to 
corroborate what he says. However,  the £2,000 contribution in the advert is for a different 
model of car and doesnt apply to the particular model Mr M arranged  to have. VWFS says 
there were no offers of contributions towards the cost of the car that Mr M had chosen to 
replace his first car at that time and this was a genuine  goodwill gesture.
I accept what VWFS has said about  the £2,000  contribution,  and that this was made  to Mr M 
to assist with the cost of the new car - and wasnt a scheme open  to anyone else seeking to 
buy that make and model of car. 
This therefore leaves  £1,400 difference between the deposit Mr M put down and the deposit 
made towards the new car. Ive seen Mr M also made a further payment of £500  towards  the 
new car, but as this was later refunded this doesnt affect the outstanding £1,400.
Ref: DRN97320526The dealership said that it further discounted the cost of the car (thereby making no profit on 
selling it) by £2,054. The dealership says this meant  that Mr M had benefitted from a total of 
£4,554 being put towards  his new car and Mr M hasnt  suffered financially in his new 
agreement.
Without the notes  or recording of phone calls,  I dont know who said what to whom  but Ive 
seen that there was contact and some discussions between Mr M and the dealership and 
that Mr M was raising queries about  costings as the second agreement was being drawn-up. 
Mr M says the paperwork doesnt show what the dealership did in regards to the figures for 
the second car, but Ive seen from the order form provided by Mr M that the second car had 
a discount applied of £2,054; a finance  deposit of £2,000; and a cash deposit paid by Mr M 
of £500. So I think the figures for the second  car were provided to Mr M at the time he 
entered into the agreement for it. And that its more likely than not he was aware  of the 
approach being taken  by the dealership.
Ive also seen that Mr M signed the second agreement  in August 2015, which sets out an 
advance payment of £2,261 that was made  on the car. And, although I appreciate the 
deposit isnt the same figure that appears  on the order form, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr M was aware that his £3,400 deposit  hadnt  been transferred to the second 
agreement when he entered  into it
So, while I accept the situation wouldve been  clearer had the dealership not dealt with the 
first cars rejection in the way that it did, Im still satisfied  that Mr M hasnt been placed in a 
worse financial position because of this and that he was dealt with fairly. 
Mr M also queried the SD card for the first cars  sat nav system. Ive seen this amount was 
included in the financial agreement as part of the overall cost of the car and so wasnt  a 
separate payment made upfront by Mr M. Had the agreement been unwound then Mr M 
wouldnt have received this cost back on top as it was part of the overall credit taken out for 
the car. 
Im aware that Mr M has very strong feelings  about  how he was dealt with by the dealership 
and was concerned  that Id already made  up my mind in my provisional decision. So Im 
aware that my final decision will be a source of great  disappointment to him. And although  I 
havent changed my view I would like to assure Mr M that I have looked again  carefully  at 
everything I was provided with and taken into account what  he had to say. Im satisfied that 
the outcome of the new agreement was that the dealership had treated him fairly  and Im not 
going to ask VWFS to do anything more. 
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ref: DRN97320527Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9732052