K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that because Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) delayed in picking  up 
his pension transfer request, it based the transfer  value on a lower final bonus rate which  
was declared during  the transfer process. He says that if Aviva  had started  work on his 
transfer when  it received  it then the transfer would have been completed before the bonus 
rate changed. He says hes suffered a significant  loss in the value of his plan because  of 
Avivas actions.
background 
In July 2017 Mr F requested valuations for the pension he held with Aviva.  He then met with 
his financial adviser  to discuss transferring the Aviva  plan  along  with two other pensions  he 
held  into a new plan with another provider. His adviser then sent a letter of authority to 
Aviva requesting further information. Aviva confirmed that the estimated value of the fund 
was £247,087.82,  although it said this figure is not guaranteed  and we will re-calculate it on 
receipt of all of our requirements. 
In a separate letter to Mr Fs adviser Aviva confirmed that he  or Mr F  would need to 
provide a written  statement confirming that regulated advice had been given before it would 
complete the transfer. Mr F completed transfer requests for all the plans on 
29 November 2017 and this request was submitted electronically by the new provider to all 
three existing providers on 11 December 2017.  Aviva accepts this request was received on 
12 December 2017.
Mr F says the other providers completed  the transfer before 31 December 2017  but Aviva  
didnt complete its transfer  until 3 January 2018 when £232,495.91 was sent to the new 
provider. This was confirmed to Mr F on 12 January 2018.  But when he saw the transferred 
amount he contacted Aviva asking why it had dropped so significantly from the valuation  he 
received in September 2017.
Aviva said its annuity rates had changed  in November  2017 and the final bonus rate used to 
calculate the transfer value had reduced in January 2018. These two factors led to the 
overall value of the plan being reduced when it was eventually transferred. 
Mr F wasnt happy with that explanation so he complained. Following further discussions 
Aviva accepted that they were at fault for a short delay in registering the transfer request. It 
offered £175 by way of apology for the inconvenience caused and carried  out a loss 
calculation to see if the delay had directly  caused  Mr F to suffer any financial loss. 
But Aviva concluded  that it had started work on the transfer within five days of receiving his 
transfer request  which meant it had kept within its maximum working timescale of 10 working 
days to complete a task.  So it said Mr F had received the correct transfer value which  wasnt  
impacted by any initial delay in looking at his transfer request. Mr F remained unhappy so he 
brought his complaint to us where  one of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs complaint. 
She thought  the complaint  about  the reduction  in the transfer value shouldnt  be upheld and 
recommended Mr F should  accept  the offer of £175 as fair and reasonable compensation  for 
any inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN91272062She thought  the transfer, which was registered on Avivas systems within five working days,  
was completed within  a reasonable timescale and specifically within Avivas 10 working day 
policy. She said Mr Fs adviser had already been informed the policy  contained guarantees 
and that he would need to provide  written confirmation that Mr F had received advice before 
Aviva would process the transfer.
Mr F didnt  agree with the view and in summary said:
It took Aviva 22 working  days to complete the transfer which  inevitably took it past 
the year-end deadline after which the applicable bonus rate for the policy was due to 
be reviewed. This was outside  of the 10 working day timescale that Aviva said it 
worked to.
He thought Aviva must have been  fully aware at the time they received the transfer  
request that there was to be a significant  reduction in their bonus  rate on the 
1st January. He thought Aviva should  have reminded him to return  the signed  
documents before the end of December so as to avoid this reduction.
The adjudicator said Mr F and his adviser had already been informed of the need  to provide 
written confirmation that Mr F received advice,  before Aviva was able to process  the transfer, 
but it wasnt provided with the transfer  request. But Mr F still didnt agree, so as no resolution 
could be found  the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im in agreement 
with the adjudicator and for largely  the same reasons. I know  Mr F is going to be 
disappointed with this outcome so Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ive seen a quotation that Aviva produced on 18 December 2017  which  wasnt  sent to Mr F 
because Avivas outstanding requirements hadnt  been met at that point. But it represented 
the value Aviva would  have  paid had it received and been able to process Mr Fs fully 
completed paperwork. So Im satisfied Aviva did act on Mr Fs transfer request within  its 
confirmed service standards  of 10 working  days and would have  paid the amount shown 
within this illustration. Aviva has confirmed  that, adhering to its normal service standards  of 
10 working days to complete the transfer,  meant  it would have needed to authorise  payment  
by 27 December 2017 should  it have  received  all the necessary paperwork with the transfer 
request. 
I note that the figure from that illustration  was still somewhat lower than the figure Mr F had 
been advised of in the illustration from September 2017, but it was also higher than the 
amount it did ultimately pay Mr F. So, what I have  to consider is whether Aviva made any 
errors which meant it couldnt  transfer  Mr Fs pension before its value was recalculated  after 
the bonus rate had been reduced.
Mr F says that Aviva took 22 working days to process the transfer and that it must  have been 
aware of an impending bonus rate reduction, so it should have processed his transfer  earlier, 
or at least  reminded him to return the outstanding forms so it could have completed the 
transfer before the end of the year. Aviva on the other hand  says it told Mr F and his adviser 
Ref: DRN91272063about the requirements which needed  to accompany his transfer request. And as they 
werent received  it had to request them again which meant the paperwork it needed wasnt  
received until after the bonus rate had changed.
Ive considered this point  very carefully, and Ive found that Aviva  sent Mr F details of the 
options he had relating  to his plan on 18 September 2017. This set out the value of the plan 
at that time and some of the options available to him to take his benefits  including 
transferring the plan elsewhere and the need to take financial advice. The letter made a 
number of references to the value of the plan not being  guaranteed including  within the 
declaration that Mr F had to sign  which said I agree the value  of my retirement  fund will be 
different when it is transferred. So I think it was made clear at this point that the transfer 
value of Mr Fs plan would only be confirmed when Aviva authorised  the transfer to be made  
and sent the money to another provider.  
On the same  date Aviva  also sent an email to Mr Fs adviser  providing information hed 
requested  which also said Your adviser  will need  to provide us with a written  statement 
confirming that you've  received advice  before  we can process  the transfer. We've  enclosed  a 
confirmation of financial advice form for your adviser to use which  confirms  all the 
information they need to tell us. Your adviser  can provide their own written statement if they 
prefer as long as it includes the same information.  without  this documentation we will be 
unable to process the payment of the transfer.
Ive seen copies  of the forms that were sent with the letter and which  required completion. 
The transfer value  of the plan was also confirmed and the accompanying notes  said the 
transfer value  is not guaranteed and we will re-calculate it on receipt of all of our 
requirements. I note that the adviser  in his request for information  to Aviva, asked for 
copies of any warranty/discharge forms that would  need to be completed  if the client 
decided to transfer their benefits.
So Im satisfied that Mr Fs adviser was expecting to have to complete some additional forms 
around the transfer and I think Aviva did state  that certain confirmations would need  to be 
made before it would be able to process the transfer  of Mr Fs benefits.  
And further information  sent to Mr Fs adviser in October 2017 clarified that the transfer 
value might change  before  payment  as it stated The illustrations do not include  a final 
bonus or discretionary enhancement, which may apply, as they are not guaranteed and both 
can increase, decrease or be withdrawn at any time. 
So, I think that when  looking  at everything  Aviva  sent to Mr F and his adviser it did make 
them both aware  of the need for Mr F to take financial advice  with confirmation provided 
that had been done, and made them  aware that the value of the plan couldnt  be guaranteed 
until it was actually paid to another provider and that a number of factors  could affect that 
outcome, one of which was the declaration of bonus rates.
Mr Fs transfer  request  was received by Aviva on 12 December 2017,  and regardless  of 
whether it was actioned  straight away, Aviva has confirmed it would have authorised  the 
payment before the end of the year if all of its requirements had been met. But they werent,  
as the confirmation that advice had been given wasnt  provided, and Aviva had to request 
that again on 19 and 20 December 2017  by letter and by telephone. 
Ref: DRN91272064Its letter confirmed what had previously  been requested in the email of September  2017 the 
value of your policy requires that you need  to have received advice, and to send us evidence  
of this advice, before  we can proceed with your chosen option. The advice  needs  to be from 
a Financial Conduct Authority regulated Financial Adviser with permission to carry out this 
type of advice. The evidence can be either the enclosed Confirmation of financial advice or a 
written statement that provides the same information.  
Because of the Christmas  holidays  Mr F wasnt able to meet his adviser and sign the 
relevant forms until the following year when the value of the plan  as Aviva said it would be 
 was recalculated.  But, because the new bonus rates  had been  declared on 
1 January 2018, this had the unfortunate effect  of significantly  reducing the transfer  value of 
Mr Fs pension. So Ive considered whether it should  have been possible for Aviva to have 
implemented the transfer in 2017  even allowing for the additional information it needed. 
When Aviva  received Mr Fs transfer request on 12 December 2017 its own service 
standards said it should deal with that request  within 10 working days. Its not for me to 
dictate what service standards a business should operate  but, in my opinion,  a standard  of 
10 working days to complete such tasks seems fair and reasonable. As Ive previously said 
that meant  Aviva should have been able to complete the transfer by 27 December 2017 
which left just two working days that month.  
I dont believe it would  have been possible for Aviva to write to Mr F and his adviser and get 
the information it needed within that timescale. Indeed, allowing for issues  that often occur at 
that time of the year, Mr Fs adviser  wasnt able to return the information until the following 
year. So I dont think its reasonable to have  an expectation for it to be completed within the 
two working days that were left before 2018  and the declaration of the new bonus rate. I 
cant safely say there  would have been enough time for Aviva  to get the transfer through  at 
the old bonus rates, so I dont think Aviva  has done anything wrong there. 
Its unfortunate that the value of Mr Fs plan fell so sharply over that period  of time. And I 
have some sympathy for Mr Fs position here. But the very nature of investments is that their 
value can fall as well as rise for a number of reasons, and Aviva had made Mr F aware on a 
number of occasions that could happen. I know Mr F says that Aviva should  have  been  
aware that its bonus rate would be falling and should have tried to mitigate the effect  this 
might have on plans   especially in such circumstances as his. 
But I dont think thats a reasonable expectation to have of Aviva. It has to process a large 
number of pension  policies every day and if they had to try to predict whether to expedite a 
particular transfer  or even  contact an individual where the value changed over time (either  
up or down)  then in my opinion it would never be able to process any instructions  that it had 
received. Ive also seen  Avivas call notes  which  confirm it did contact the adviser the day 
after it requested  the confirmation of financial advice form. So I dont agree that Aviva should 
have done more to make Mr F and his adviser  aware of the need  to return the form.
When Aviva  dealt with Mr Fs complaint it agreed that it may have delayed dealing with his 
transfer request  in the first place. It carried out a loss calculation but said it hadnt  exceeded  
its own 10 working day turnaround for each task and therefore  hadnt caused any delays. 
But it apologised for mis-informing Mr F and paid him £175. Aviva has also confirmed that 
Ref: DRN91272065Mr F has presented the cheque it sent him for payment. 
I think that payment  is fair and reasonable compensation for providing some mis-information 
about the transfer start date and the impact  this had on Mr F when he was trying to get a 
resolution to his complaint. I consider £175  to be broadly  in line with what I would have 
recommended had Aviva not made  its offer and it seems a fair and reasonable payment  in 
the circumstances to resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited in so much as I 
think the payment  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  has made to compensate Mr F for any 
distress and inconvenience it caused is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9127206