K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about consequential financial losses said to result  from interest  rate 
hedging products  (IRHPs)  sold by Lloyds Bank PLC (the bank) to Mr and Mrs T (the 
partnership) from 2006 to 2010. 
The partnership says the banks offer to compensate  them for those losses isnt enough.
background 
The partnership invests in and develops commercial and residential  property for rental  
income.
From 2006  to 2010 the bank sold four IRHPs to swap the variable interest rate the 
partnership was paying on their borrowing for a fixed interest rate.
The partnership complained to the bank about the IRHPs in October 2012. The bank didnt  
want to renew the partnerships  borrowing  and wanted it repaid, but it agreed to wait while  it 
reviewed the sale of the IRHPs. 
In 2014 the bank offered  about £1.66 million  compensation to the partnership  (which was 
about £1.42million refund of payments plus 8% interest)  on the basis that the partnership 
should have had an alternative IRHP, which capped the interest  rate for five years  from late 
2007. The partnership  accepted the offer and received payment in June  2014,  subject to 
making a claim for consequential losses.
In 2015 the bank revised the calculation of redress to £1.92million (which was about 
£1.57million refund of payments plus 8% interest).  This was on the basis that the partnership 
shouldnt have had any IRHP. So the bank paid about £264,000 more  to the partnership.
The partnerships claim for consequential  losses was initially  for professional advisers  fees 
plus 8% interest and additional tax incurred on the redress payment. But their claim was 
later expanded to include  losses as a result of the delay in developing one of their 
properties. They claim the delay has meant development/construction costs are higher and 
theyve lost rental income.
The bank offered £5,160  for some  professional  fees plus 8% interest and £15,464.10  for 
additional tax. It said the rest of the claim wasnt recoverable  because the partnership hadnt 
proved the claim  or evidenced the loss. The partnership didnt accept the banks offer and 
brought the complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and he concluded that if the bank 
increased its offer by £500 that would be a fair settlement of the complaint. He considered  
the delay in developing the property wasnt caused  by the IRHP  payments. He also 
concluded that the banks  offer for additional  tax seemed correct. But he thought  that the 
bank should increase its offer by £500  for the legal  fees the partnership incurred in arranging  
a standstill agreement.
Although the bank  didnt accept the adjudicators  conclusions, it was prepared  to increase its 
offer by £500  to settle the complaint. 
Ref: DRN97943202The partnership didnt  agree with the adjudicator and said,  in summary  and among other  
things, that it was clear  the property development had been delayed by at least three  years  - 
roughly speaking between mid-2013 and mid-2016 - as a result  of the IRHPs, which caused 
the large financial losses that their representative specified. 
The partnership also (a) continued  to argue the bank should  pay or contribute further  to their 
professional fees,  saying  it wasnt  reasonable to have expected them  to present their case  
without help and (b) said it would reformulate their claim  for compensation for additional tax 
once the ombudsmans decision on consequential losses had been  made.  
Part of the partnerships case is that two commercial tenancies affecting  the property 
wouldnt have existed  or have continued  to exist but for the IRHPs. So the bank  should,  
among other things,  compensate the partnership for the payments it had had to make to the 
tenants to persuade them to vacate. 
Having carried out an initial  review of the papers, an ombudsman  colleague  and then I asked 
the partnership  to provide more information, in particular  regarding the leases affecting the 
development property.  The partnership provided this information,  via their representative. 
The representative also drew my attention to another, similar complaint dealt with by the 
ombudsman service where a claim for compensation for the delayed development of a 
property had succeeded.
My earlier provisional decision
I reached the following provisional  findings  on the complaint:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the other complaint to which the partnerships  representative  has referred. 
Each case we deal with is considered on its individual merits. 
At the heart  of the partnerships complaint is the claim that the IRHPs  delayed the property 
development by around three  years. Im sorry to disappoint the partnership but Ive not been 
persuaded of this. I say this for a number of reasons:
The partnership says a property development typically takes them  seven to eight 
years to complete,  whereas the development in question will take or has taken  them 
around 11 years to complete. That may be so, but that doesnt on its own prove or 
show that the IRHPs caused a three-year delay.
The partnership may have reacted to the situation created  by the IRHPs by delaying  
the development project, but that doesnt mean  they had to do so, either  at all or for 
such a long time.
It seems  to me there were substantial delays,  or time lags, that werent caused  by the 
IRHPs. One such delay  was in obtaining replacement finance,  at least after the 
partnership received the first substantial compensation payment  in June 2014 and 
the IRHPs ceased to exist. Replacement finance was required regardless of the 
IRHPs. 
Another such delay  was caused  by the negotiations to remove  the commercial  
tenants. In the case of one tenant  the negotiations began  in (and not until)  
March 2015 and the tenant finally vacated  in December  2015. In the other case the 
Ref: DRN97943203negotiations began in, and not until, early 2015  and the tenant  vacated in 
March 2016. 
The property was bought in 2007 but it wasnt until 2013 that planning permission 
was obtained   a six-year gap. The partnership has suggested,  but ultimately chose 
not to argue,  that but for the IRHPs planning  permission might  have been applied for 
and obtained sooner.  But in any event I note that planning  permission was applied for 
and obtained while the IRHPs still existed and before the partnerships complaint 
about them  had succeeded.
One of the commercial tenants  enjoyed security  of tenure under the Landlord and 
Tenant Act 1954. They applied for a new secure tenancy in January 2012, and the 
partnership had no grounds at that point to oppose the new tenancy, which was 
finalised in 2013. So the partnerships ability to develop the property and the timing 
thereof, which depended on this tenant vacating,  was always  going to be dependent 
on negotiations  with the tenant, who had security of tenure. It seems unlikely that the 
tenant, having obtained a new secure tenancy in 2013, was going to immediately 
vacate, which would  have been  necessary under the partnerships  counterfactual. 
The partnership says the secure tenant had an incentive to vacate because of the 
degree of dilapidations  though I query if the partnership could have insisted they 
were remedied  if the property was about  to be internally demolished  but I dont 
accept that persuading the tenant  to vacate was as straightforward  and quick  as the 
partnership is suggesting. The negotiations  took nine months.  But if Im wrong  about  
that, it follows that the tenancy wasnt an impediment to the development starting. 
Since the tenant was a secure tenant,  they were in principle entitled to compensation 
for surrendering  their tenancy.  That had nothing  to do with the IRHPs. 
As I see things at present, and disregarding  for a moment the other tenant, the 
existence of the secure tenant  means the earliest the development could have been 
started was January  2016. And that had nothing to do with the IRHPs. 
Regarding the other tenant,  they vacated  in March 2016. Even if I thought that this 
tenancy wouldnt have  existed but for the IRHPs,  as the partnership has argued,  that 
would mean only two or three months of extra delay. And any compensation for that 
short period would be counterbalanced by the rental income  from the two tenancies,  
which on the partnerships counterfactual wouldnt have existed. Thats without  taking 
account of the compensation  for consequential losses  contained in the compensation 
the bank has already  paid (in 2014  and 2015). 
Regarding the other tenant,  it seems  to me that the tenancy granted  to them  in 2013 
was on the whole a boon to the partnership.  It gave  them a rental income and the 
tenant has committed to remaining  a tenant,  via their company, in the renovated 
property. 
To sum up, I havent been persuaded that the IRHPs caused  any, or any substantial, delay   
of three  years  or less - to the property  development that would call for compensation to be 
payable by the bank.
Regarding the other points:
Like the adjudicator  and for the reasons  he gave, I think  the bank has taken the right 
approach to calculating and paying  compensation for additional tax.
We dont usually  award professional costs to complainants, and I see no reason to 
do so in this case. The ombudsman service  is free and we dont expect or require a 
complaint to be presented to us with professional assistance. Similarly, it should  cost 
a complainant nothing to complain  to their bank.  If a customer  chooses to appoint a 
representative or obtain other  professional help, whether in regard to the 
Ref: DRN97943204ombudsman service or in bringing the complaint to the bank, thats a matter  for them. 
But we dont  think it right or fair that the financial business should have to fund that 
for the customer.
I too propose to award the partnership  an additional £500  towards  the partnerships  
legal costs regarding  the standstill agreement. The bank  has objected that the 
partnership agreed to pay their own legal costs,  in the text of the standstill agreement 
itself. Thats true, but I dont think that means I cant or shouldnt make the proposed 
award. We often recommend methods of redress that involve a modification of the 
parties strict legal rights towards  one another. The point  is that, but for the IRHPs, 
thered have been no call for the standstill  agreement.
my provisional decision
In addition to Lloyds Bank PLC doing  what its already offered to do, the bank should pay the 
partnership a further £500.
The bank acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and said it would await  my final 
decision.
the partnerships response to my provisional  decision
The partnership didnt  accept  my provisional decision. Via their representative they made the 
following points, among others:
I should re-consider  my provisional decision based on two main  points: (a) a 
misunderstanding on my part of the development process,  and (b) an 
underappreciation of the financial effect  the mis-selling of the IRHPs had on the 
partnerships business.
I had wrongly assumed events took place  in series when in fact many workstreams 
took place in parallel.
I hadnt properly  appreciated the flexibility of commercial leases and that they can be 
and were broken  by agreement.
I also hadnt properly  appreciated  (a) the additional direct  financial cost of the IRHPs 
(b) the pressure  the bank put on the partnership owing  to the additional  cost and the 
underlying contingent  liability (c) the ongoing negative  effect this had on the accounts 
and creditworthiness  of the partnership as they tried to obtain alternative finance. 
The partnership drew  my attention to the question whether, on the balance of 
probability, a delay (in proceeding  with the property development) was caused by a 
difficulty in getting tenants out of the building or by the financial consequences of the 
additional costs  of the IRHPs. 
The partnership commented specifically on my various provisional findings,  by 
reference to the paragraphs of the written decision. 
The partnership also drew my attention  to the report by Sir Ross  Cranston QC which  
they said independently confirmed that the banks methodology for assessing  
consequential losses was unfair,  as indeed  were bank-administered schemes like the 
Financial Conduct Authority scheme.  
I stress Ive provided only a summary of the partnerships main  points. I have  of course 
carefully considered  all theyve written, both in response to my provisional decision and from 
before. 
Ref: DRN97943205my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the partnership,  
but I confirm I remain satisfied that my provisional  findings are fair and represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution of the complaint.
The most important question I have to decide  remains as it has always been:  have the 
arguments and evidence persuaded me, on the balance of probability, that the IRHPs  
caused a delay to the partnerships property development, which  in turn gave rise to 
consequential financial losses greater than the compensation for such  losses  comprised  in 
the compensation the bank has already paid to the partnership?
My answer remains that I havent been  so persuaded, and my reasons remain those set out 
in my provisional decision.
I dont dispute  the IRHPs made  it more  difficult for the partnership to obtain  alternative 
finance. But I remain of the view, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the substantial  cause 
of the delay was the presence  of the tenants  - and the continuing presence of one of those 
tenants had nothing to do with the IRHPs. 
The tenant in question had a statutory right to renew their tenancy,  which  theyd exercised. I 
appreciate this didnt  mean the renewed  tenancy had to run its full course.  But the fact 
remains that it wasnt until December  2015  that the tenant agreed to vacate. It wasnt until 
then  which was after the alternative  finance had been obtained  that the essential 
development work, which required  the demolition  of the property apart  from the facade, 
could start.  
In their original submissions the partnership stated: The reason for the delay in addition to 
the time for the basic redress to be paid is that, unlike the counterfactual situation, the 
tenants had to be persuaded to forfeit their leases. This took longer than expected
So I dont  accept what I understand the partnerships revised position to be, namely that the 
removal of the tenants  had no material bearing on the timescales and the delay. I say this 
because (a) the evidence indicates the situation with the tenants did indeed make an earlier 
completion of the development  works impossible and because  (b) the partnerships  own 
testimony confirms this. (This is subject to the caveat that, for the reasons Ive given, I think  
that in the counterfactual  situation at least one of the tenancies would still have existed.)
Regarding the Cranston report, Ive noted the partnerships comments, but my review  has 
been restricted to the particulars  of the partnerships complaint, on which  Ive now reached  
my final findings.
To summarise:
I find that the IRHPs didnt cause the partnership to suffer consequential losses 
which were greater  than the compensation for such losses  that the bank has already  
paid to the partnership. 
My main reason for this finding is that the development  property was subject to a 
statutory commercial tenancy the renewal  of which the partnership didnt and couldnt 
oppose. 
Ref: DRN97943206The tenant under  that tenancy didnt vacate  the property until December 2015, by 
which time the partnership had arranged  alternative finance. 
So I dont find it was the partnerships difficulties in arranging alternative finance  that 
was the cause of the delay in pressing ahead with the property development. 
I endorse my provisional  findings  as final. 
my final decision
In addition to doing what its already offered to do (ie to pay the partnership £5,160 for some 
professional fees plus 8% interest and £15,464.10 for additional tax), Lloyds Bank PLC 
should pay the partnership a further £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794320