K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly lent payday  loans to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr M between  October 
2014 and December 2014.  Mr Ms lending  history is as follows:
Loan 1, 9 October 2014 for £300  (£404.85 with interest and charges);
Loan 2, 9 November 2014 for £500  (£674.75 with interest  and charges);
Loan 3, 1 December 2014 for £500,  repaid late. 
Mr M repaid all his loans. There were only short breaks between them. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought all the loans shouldnt have been  
given. Uncle  Buck disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN96326822Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr M for his monthly  income,  which he said was £3,230 for all his loans. It 
also asked him for his monthly expenses. Mr M said these totalled  £3,650  for loans one and 
two and £1,225 for loan three. 
Uncle Buck  later said Mr M also told it that he had £3,240 additional monthly income  for all 
his loans which it said made all his loans affordable. Our adjudicator asked Uncle  Buck for 
evidence of this as, for example, shown  on Mr Ms loan applications.  But Uncle  Buck didnt 
provide this evidence to substantiate its stance. Without this evidence of this substantial  
additional income or its likely source  I think its reasonable for me to rely on just the take 
home pay information Uncle Buck recorded for Mr M. 
As our adjudicator explained, the checks for loans  one to three would have shown Uncle  
Buck that Mr M was having  difficulty managing his finances:
For loans one and two, Uncle Bucks own checks showed that Mr M didnt have any 
disposable income to repay his loans. 
From  the information Mr M provided,  loan three looked affordable for him. But loan 
three was taken out shortly after loan two was repaid, making three loans in a two 
month period.  The loan amounts  had increased.  And so I think  Uncle Buck should 
have made further checks before approving this loan to make sure that Mr M could 
repay his loan sustainably. 
I think proportionate checks would have shown that Mr M wasnt  managing  his 
finances well and couldnt sustain his repayments. 
So I think it was wrong for Uncle Buck to have approved all three loans. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  one to three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one to three from Mr Ms credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN96326823my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. I 
require Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9632682