K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about the charges that FCE Bank Plc (trading as Ford Credit) (FCE) 
applied when she handed back a car shed acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In December 2015, Mrs F entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCE to acquire a 
brand-new car. 
When Mrs F handed  back the car, in January 2019 at the end of the hire period, FCE said 
she needed to pay an excess mileage charge of £897.78 excluding  VAT. FCE also asked 
Mrs F to pay £753.82 excluding VAT for damage to the car which they considered  was 
outside of fair wear  and tear. 
Mrs F was unhappy with the charges  levied  so she raised a complaint with FCE and asked if 
the charges could be reduced.  
In February 2019,  FCE replied saying that Mrs F had a mileage allowance  of 27,750 miles, 
but at the time she handed  back the car it had covered 42,713  miles,  so she was charged for 
the extra miles as per her hire purchase agreement. FCE also said that when the car was 
returned an inspection  report  was completed  and 10 parts  on the car had damage which  
were outside  of fair wear and tear, so Mrs F needed  to pay £753.82 excluding  VAT. 
FCE go on to say that later another inspection report was done which  showed  additional  
damage. This report was completed six days  after the initial  report. FCE says that this report  
shows that the front left tyre had a cut which was over 25mm, the right A post had scratches 
through the paint and the right front tyre had a cut over 25mm. They say the total cost of the 
damage from this report was £1,212.86 excluding VAT. But FCE go on to say that in view of 
treating customers fairly they are only charging  Mrs F for the damage listed in the initial  
report. 
Unhappy with FCEs response Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. Mrs F told us 
shes only unhappy with the damage charges not the mileage charge.
Our investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld.  The investigator  thought  that 
that the charges for damage to the car were applicable and she didnt think  it was 
reasonable to ask FCE to remove them. 
Mrs F disagreed with the investigator.  So, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, I
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider most 
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mrs F acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement, which is a regulated consumer
Ref: DRN90327002credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Mrs Fs agreement  
with FCE sets out that at the end of the contract term she will be responsible  for the cost of 
repairs to the car which would be considered outside of reasonable wear and tear.
The British  Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association  (BVRLA) sets out industry guidance on 
what is considered  fair wear and tear standards. When Mrs F acquired  the car it was brand 
new, so I think it is reasonable  to consider  the BVRLA standards  when deciding whether the 
damage is outside of reasonable wear  and tear. Since the car was brand new when acquired 
by Mrs F, most likely it was in a perfect condition, and free from minor defects. With that said 
the car most  likely had no scratches or damage outside of reasonable wear  and tear present 
when Mrs F acquired it. So, I reviewed the inspection report which  was completed  when 
Mrs F returned the car to see if the damage  on the car was outside  of fair wear and tear. 
I havent looked in detail  at the second inspection report that was completed six days  after 
the initial report. This is because FCE are only charging Mrs F for the damage listed in the 
initial report, and not for any of the additional  damage that was found later.
In deciding whether  FCE has acted fairly  in relation to each charge, Ive taken  into 
consideration the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement,  BVRLAs guidelines 
as well as the age and mileage of the car when it was returned. 
Alloy wheels
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scuffs  totalling  up to 50mm  on the total circumference of 
the wheel  trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. And that any damage to the wheel 
spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. From the pictures, in the inspection 
report, I can see that each  alloy wheel has more  than 50mm of scuffs  and at least two of the 
four wheels have  damage on the spokes.  So, each wheel has damage which  I consider to 
be representative of damage that is outside of fair wear and tear. 
Front seat base cover right
The BVRLA guidance sets out that interior upholstery and trim must be clean and odourless 
with no burns, scratches, tears, dents  or staining. From a picture in the report  I can see there  
appears to be a tear which looks like it couldve  been from a burn. It is approximately 5mm in 
size. I consider this tear to be outside  of fair wear and tear.
Scratches on outside panels and body  of the car
The BVRLA guidance sets out that scratches  and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable 
providing the primer or bare metal  isnt showing.
From the pictures I can see that:
-the rear bumper is cracked,  and this abrasion is bigger than 25mm.  Also,  parts of the 
bumper have scratches where primer or bare metal is showing;
-the right quarter panel has scratches  that are above 25mm and expose the primer;
-the right front door has a circular  scratch which exposes the primer.  
So, I consider all the above to be outside of fair wear and tear.
Front wing left
Ref: DRN90327003The BVRLA guidance sets out that dents up to 10mm are acceptable provided there are no 
more than two per panel and the paint  surface  is not broken. I can see there are more  than 
two dents on that panel, so it is outside  of what  would be considered  fair wear  and tear. 
Puncture repair kit
Mrs F says that the puncture  repair kit was in the car when it was returned. The report  
indicates that the puncture repair kit is missing. 
I can see that the inspection report was signed by Mr F, who I understand was returning the 
car on Mrs Fs behalf. I think most likely if Mr F thought the puncture repair kit was not 
missing, he wouldnt have  signed or wouldve  disputed this at the time when he signed the 
report. So, I think most likely the puncture kit was missing at the time the car was returned, 
and FCE is entitled  to charge Mrs F for this.  
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mrs F, looking at all the 
evidence available  to me I think, on balance, it was fair and reasonable for FCE to charge 
her for the damage and the missing part. So, Im not asking FCE to remove any of the 
charges. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9032700