K821x#15complaint
Ms I and Mr Z complain about the way The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland
treated them  whilst their mortgage  was in arrears. Theyre not happy that the bank increased
their interest rate, at a time when the Bank of England base rate was going down.
background
In 2005, Ms I and Mr Z took out an interest-only mortgage with Bristol & West Mortgages,
though the loan has since transferred to Bank of Ireland.  The mortgage was on a fixed 
rate of 4.75% until 30 September  2007.  The mortgage offer stated that after this date, the 
standard variable  rate (SVR) would be applied  to the mortgage, which  was 6.59% at the 
time. After this, Ms I and Mr Z took out another fixed rate product paying 5.84% until
30 September 2009, and the mortgage has been on the SVR ever since.
In December  2015, Ms I and Mr Z stopped paying  the full monthly mortgage payments, and 
so the account  fell into arrears. In the absence of any payment arrangement  being  agreed, 
in July 2016, Bank of Ireland wrote to them to explain they were starting legal proceedings.
This was never pursued as Ms I and Mr Z resumed making payments after receiving 
support from the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP)  in August 2016.
Ms I complained to Bank of Ireland, as she didnt feel theyd treated her and her husband 
fairly whilst the mortgage was in arrears, and they hadnt followed the regulators rules on 
fair treatment in financial hardship.  She also complained about the interest  rate theyd 
been charged on their mortgage. She said this was higher than it shouldve been given 
the reduction in the Bank of England rate, and Bank  of Ireland  should  have offered her a 
lower rate when she and Mr Z were struggling  to make payments.
Bank of Ireland explained theyd tried to engage with Ms I and Mr Z about the arrears on 
the mortgage. They said the SVR was set independently of the Bank  of England  rate, 
and they couldnt offer them a lower rate whilst the mortgage was in arrears.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2019.  This is what  I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I and Mr Z have provided  a lot of information to explain why they dont feel theyve  been  
treated fairly by the bank.  Ive carefully  considered everything theyve said,  and will 
address the key issues of the complaint below.
treatment whilst in arrears
In December  2015, Ms I explained in her call with Bank of Ireland that she and Mr Z were 
having difficulty and experiencing  cash flow problems due to their employment. In 
February 2016 when  they spoke again, I can see the bank discussed options with Ms I, 
and she asked to capitalise the arrears on the account. Bank of Ireland requested details  
of her income and expenditure, before agreeing to any proposals.
Ms I never returned this information. Shes told us that she didnt want  to share the 
information as she thought the bank would use it against her to start repossessing  the 
Ref: DRN98165502property. I understand Ms Is concerns. However, in order  for Bank of Ireland to ensure they 
were providing support  to Ms I and Mr Z, I think it was reasonable for them to want  to know 
more about their situation before agreeing to any changes or concessions.  This is because 
it wouldnt be right for them to agree to something  that could potentially make Ms I and Mr Z 
worse off, or put the mortgage in a worse position. This is something  Id expect them  to 
consider.
Ms I said she wanted to capitalise  the arrears, and I can understand why she may have felt 
this would have  helped at the time. But both Ms I and Mr Z were out of work, with no 
guaranteed planned  income for the foreseeable future. I appreciate  they were looking for 
work, and Ms I was considering going self-employed, but nothing  was guaranteed. If Bank  
of Ireland did capitalise the arrears, the monthly  payments would  have increased  as a 
result. With no reasonable expectation of when or even if Ms I or Mr Z would start to 
receive a regular income again, or what this income  might be  I understand why Bank  of 
Ireland didnt feel this was an acceptable  proposal.
Ms I said that if the arrears had been capitalised, they could have applied for a lower 
interest rate. I dont disagree  that they could have  applied  for a lower  interest  rate, but I 
think in reality its unlikely  any applications  would have been  approved  without them
demonstrating they could afford the mortgage. This is because  they didnt have a clear 
track record of payments to the mortgage, theyd also have to show they could afford  the 
new monthly payments.  With no income  at the time, I think Ms I and Mr Z would have 
found this difficult.
Ms I has said that Bank  of Irelands actions have not complied  with the Mortgage Conduct 
of Business sourcebook (MCOB) 13. MCOB 13 sets out what  a lender  must do when the 
consumer is having  difficulty  meeting  their mortgage  payments. Put simply, the rules say 
that a lender must treat customers fairly.  They must also consider the individual 
circumstances of the consumer, and make  reasonable efforts to reach an agreement  over 
the method of repaying any arrears.  A lender should only consider repossessing a property 
as a last resort.
Ive seen Bank of Irelands contact notes, and can see that they made several  attempts 
to contact both parties about the account. Many of these were  unsuccessful.  When  the 
bank did speak to Ms I, they asked for details of her income and expenditure, which she 
wouldnt provide.  Ive explained  why I dont think they rejected Ms Is proposal unfairly. 
So looking  at whats happened, I think the bank made reasonable efforts to engage with 
Ms I and Mr Z to agree  a way forward.
Having said this I note Ms I applied for Support for Mortgage Interest  (SMI) from the 
Department of Work and Pensions  to help with the mortgage payments. In their internal 
notes, I can see that Bank of Ireland were aware  of the claim in June 2016. In July 2016, 
theres a note left which, in summary,  says they wont wait for the SMI claim to be 
assessed before proceeding  to litigation, due to changes in waiting  times.  They sent a 
letter to both Ms I and Mr Z following this explaining legal action may now take place.  On 
balance, Im not persuaded the bank allowed enough time for the claim to be assessed  
before sending a warning  about legal action. Ms I said this left her very distressed, and 
was worried that she would find herself homeless with two dependents.  So whilst I think  
the bank did enough to engage with Ms I and Mr Z about their situation, I think theyve 
moved things too quickly here. The waiting time for a benefit claim to be processed is out 
of Ms I and Mr Zs control.
Ref: DRN98165503They knew  a claim was being assessed  for SMI, and decided to proceed anyway after 
just one month. As it turned out, the first SMI payment was made in August  and Bank 
of Ireland no longer pursued  legal  action. But Im satisfied the warning of it at a time 
when Ms I was seeking support caused  her distress. As a result   I think  Bank of Ireland 
should pay Ms I £200 compensation for the distress caused by this warning. I also dont 
consider it fair to charge a default fee for the months  of June and July  as the bank 
knew Ms I and Mr Z were  taking  steps to get things back on track. So I think these fees 
should be refunded.
interest rate charged
Ms I has said that if it wasnt  for the high interest  rate charged by Bank  of Ireland, they 
wouldnt have fallen  into arrears. However,  for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not 
persuaded this is the case. I think the reason they fell into arrears was because of a 
change in their employment  circumstances, which left them with a reduced income. Even  
if the interest  rate was lower, they would still have  struggled with the repayments  and 
still been in arrears.
However, I have considered the interest rate Bank  of Ireland  charged on Ms I and Mr Zs 
mortgage, and whether  I think the increases made have  been fair. Since  theyve been on 
Bank of Irelands SVR,  the rate has both increased and decreased over the years.  The 
latest changes  were in 2012, when the rate increased to 4.49%, and in 2016, when the 
rate decreased to 4.24%.
The terms of Ms I and Mr Zs mortgage which they agreed to when they took it out, clearly  
set out what  is meant by the term standard variable  rate and the reasons why this might  
vary over the life of the mortgage. The very nature of a variable rate means  that it can go 
up as well as down,  and I note that it did in fact go down considerably between the time 
that Ms I and Mr Z agreed to take out this mortgage,  and when their mortgage actually 
moved onto the SVR,  which  was 2.99% at the time.
Ms I said she feels the terms in the mortgage  contract that allow the Bank  of Ireland to 
change their SVR are unfair. I acknowledge the terms do allow  a wide discretion on the 
banks part to alter the rate when they choose to. And at the time Ms I and Mr Z agreed to 
these terms they couldnt  reasonably foresee just how much  the interest  rate may vary 
over the life of the mortgage on the basis of these terms. So I understand why Ms I may 
feel this is unfair. However,  Ms I and Mr Z have  in fact benefited from this term. When they 
initially agreed to it  they did so on the basis that after September  2007, they would pay 
the SVR, which was 6.59% at the time. But Ms I and Mr Z have never paid this interest 
rate  as the bank has lowered it since then.  If it wasnt for the terms in the mortgage that 
allowed them to do this, Ms I and Mr Z would have  been worse off.
I appreciate that Ms I and Mr Z arent happy that the SVR has not fallen in line with the
Bank of England base  rate, or other  rates charged in the industry. But looking at the terms 
of the mortgage,  theres nothing to suggest that the SVR should  track any other rate  
and the SVR is set independently. Having said this, the SVR has dropped over time, and 
whilst it hasnt been as low as the Bank of England base rate, it has fallen broadly in line 
with it. And considering the mortgage  market at the time, Bank of Irelands rates  were  not 
significantly different to those offered by other  lenders.
The SVR did increase in 2012. Bank  of Ireland have explained that this was due to 
pressure arising from increased funding costs, and increased requirements for banks to 
Ref: DRN98165504hold capital. Bank of Ireland  have provided the Financial Ombudsman  Service  with 
information about the reasons why they needed to raise the SVR at this time.  This 
information is commercially sensitive and so I wont go into detail about it here  as our 
rules allow us to receive  evidence in confidence  where appropriate to do so. But weve 
carefully considered  the information  theyve  provided and it shows that there was a 
business need to increase  their funds at the time, and that the bank didnt go further than 
they needed to.
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland have increased  the SVR in line with the terms of 
Ms I and Mr Zs mortgage,  and were  entitled to do so. Theyve done so for a reason 
specified in their mortgage agreement.  But what I need to consider is whether this was 
fair, taking into account the circumstances at the time.
When Bank of Ireland told Ms I and Mr Z about  the changes they were making to the SVR, 
they also gave  information about  what they could do if they wanted to consider  other  
options. They said they could choose a new Bank  of Ireland product, contact their broker 
or Independent Financial  Adviser to discuss their options,  or use a nominated  broker  who
would explore the mortgage market for them.  So Im satisfied  they were  aware  of their 
options if they wanted to apply for a different rate. And whilst they may have had difficulty  
doing this after the mortgage fell into arrears, there was a considerable period  of time 
when the mortgage wasnt in arrears  - and Ive not seen anything that would  have 
stopped them from doing this then.
The terms of Ms I and Mr Zs mortgage explain that an Early Repayment  Charge (ERC)  
would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 30 September 2007.  This 
would have been extended when  they took out their next fixed rate deal until 30 
September 2009. The only charge payable on redemption after this date would be the 
lending fee of £195, if that payment had been  deferred at the time the mortgage  was 
taken out. This fee would  have been payable at any time the lending  had been fully 
redeemed, even if the mortgage  ran to term  and so I dont consider it a charge or 
penalty for redeeming the mortgage early. So overall, there  was nothing in the mortgage  
contract that would have  prevented Ms I and Mr Z from moving their mortgage to another  
lender, had they wished to. Any barriers that did prevent them  from moving were due to 
Ms I and Mr Zs circumstances, and this isnt something I can hold the bank responsible 
for.
I know  Ms I said that Bank of Ireland should have  offered them  a lower rate whilst they were  
in arrears to help them. But the bank  have explained  they cant  offer products with lower
rates to consumers whose mortgages are in arrears. Whilst on the face of it this may feel 
unfair, I dont think lowering the interest rate would  have necessarily helped them at the 
time.
In early 2016, it seems they had no income from employment at all  so a marginal change 
in the monthly  payments would not have affected  their ability to meet  them. Also,  if theyd 
entered into a fixed rate product, there would likely have been an ERC payable if they 
redeemed the mortgage whilst on the fixed rate. And given that there was no guaranteed 
income lined  up at the time, and the bank  were considering repossession, if this went 
ahead then the ERC would have added to the costs  Ms I and Mr Z would have had to pay. 
So I dont  think it would  have been in Ms I and Mr Zs best interests to tie them into a fixed 
rate product  at the time  even if the interest  rate had been lower.
So, considering  everything  Im not satisfied the SVR Bank of Ireland have charged  on
Ref: DRN98165505Ms H and Mr Zs mortgage is unfair.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  decision.
In summary,  Ms I said:
they couldnt have foreseen that the interest  rate would have gone as high as it did 
when they signed  the mortgage contract. The rate increased because  of the 
recession, and this was not a part of the contract they agreed to.
Ms I was overwhelmed  with the stress  and worry of being homeless,  whilst  her son 
was sitting exams. Her son was at private  school all his life and she couldnt move 
him to a state  school whilst he was recovering from a broken leg.
the compensation awarded is too low. They were worried  about  the mortgage  for six 
years.
if the bank were fair, capitalised the arrears,  and agreed to a lower  interest rate they 
would never have been in arrears.
In summary,  Bank of Ireland said:
they disagree they should refund the arrears  management fees charged in June and 
July 2016, as the litigation letter caused  Ms I to engage with them  about  the arrears,  
which had reached litigation  level.
the bank made a significant effort to engage  with Ms I and Mr Z about the arrears, 
with no proposal  or financial  details being  received.
they disagree that Ms I was worried enough about the situation to warrant  an award 
for distress and inconvenience.  They  sent a call recording of a conversation that took 
place in July 2016,  to demonstrate that Ms I was not showing signs  of being  
distressed.
whilst  they were  aware of the claim for support  from the Department of Work  and 
Pensions (DWP), there  was no guarantee this would  be successful or when the 
payments would be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have provided comprehensive  responses to my provisional decision, and Ive 
considered everything  theyve said carefully. However, my decision  remains unchanged.  Ill 
explain why.
Ms I has said they couldnt have  foreseen how much the interest  rate would increase at the 
time they agreed  to the terms in the mortgage  contract.  I agree with Ms I here,  as there was 
no way of knowing at the outset how much  the rate may change over time.  And as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  the rate did change considerably  since  Ms I and Mr Z 
took the mortgage out. The SVR was 6.59% in 2005, when they agreed to the mortgage  
terms, and has never  been  above  4.5%  since theyve actually been paying it from 2009 
onwards. 
Ref: DRN98165506I explained in my provisional decision  that there were no contractual  barriers preventing Ms I 
and Mr Z from either repaying their mortgage in favour of a different interest  rate elsewhere, 
or applying  for a different  rate with the Bank of Ireland. So whilst the variation  term in the 
contract did give the bank  wide discretion to change  the rate charged, Ms I and Mr Z could  
have applied  to move elsewhere if they didnt want to pay it. The only reasons preventing 
them from doing this would have been because of their own circumstances, and beyond the 
banks control. Its worth  repeating that the rates charged by Bank of Ireland were  not out of 
line with rates charged across the industry  at the time. As Ive also explained, any increases 
in the rates  were made in line with terms of the contract. So I remain  satisfied that Bank  of 
Ireland have not acted unfairly  by charging the interest rates that they have.
Ive already explained why I considered the bank were fair when rejecting the proposal to 
capitalise the arrears  on the mortgage.  So I wont go into this again here. But nothing Ms I 
has said has changed my decision on this.
I appreciate Ms I was worried  about  the mortgage  for six years,  and her son was also going 
through a lot during  this time. But Im satisfied that the bank  acted fairly until June 2016. So 
whilst I appreciate Ms I may have been stressed  for longer, I cant say this is as a result of 
anything Bank of Ireland had done  wrong.  The bank had been trying to engage  with Ms I 
about the mortgage payments, but she hadnt been forthcoming with information. I also 
consider it was the responsibility of Ms I and Mr Z to ensure they were treating their 
mortgage payments  as a priority. Again, this was outside of the banks control.
I understand Bank of Irelands view that the litigation  letters  sent may have prompted 
engagement from Ms I about a way forward. Ive also listened to the call recording theyve 
sent us. But Im still of the view that whilst the bank  were  aware  of a claim for support from 
the DWP, they should have waited for the outcome  of this before pursuing legal action. 
I agree  there was no way of knowing at the time whether the claim would have been  
successful, but they were  aware that Ms I had applied for help and was taking  steps to 
ensure payments were being made at that stage. I consider Ms I was applying for help 
before the bank  sent the litigation letters.  So Im satisfied it would have been fair to wait for 
the outcome of the claim before taking further  recovery action. As a result,  I remain satisfied  
that the arrears  management fees should  be refunded for those two months before 
mortgage payments  resumed in August 2016.
Whilst Ms I may not have appeared overtly distressed during that one phone conversation in 
July 2016, Im not persuaded this means the threat of legal action would not have caused  
her distress.  So whilst  Im not awarding  as much as Ms I feels she is due  Im still satisfied 
a modest amount is warranted. And I consider £200  a fair amount.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Governor  and Company of the Bank of Ireland to:
refund  the arrears  management fees charged in June and July 2016,  together  with 
any interest charged on them.
pay Ms I £200 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Ref: DRN98165507Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9816550