K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC,  offered 
following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by 
Mrs P. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Barclays got due to the PPI. I am unable  to consider how the policy  was sold as Im satisfied 
the complaint  wasnt brought in time.  Ive only looked  at whether the offer Barclays  has 
made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Barclays said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs P paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mrs P for the time they were out of pocket.  
Mrs P has said she should receive  all the commission and profit  share back because  she 
wasnt told that Barclays would receive any commission. But Barclays  has done what  the 
rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Ps particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Barclays should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Barclays to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Barclays Bank  UK PLC has correctly worked out what  it 
needed to pay Mrs P. 
I understand Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Ref: DRN97765092Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9776509