K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his credit card account without providing him 
with an explanation.
background 
Mr S says HSBC closed his credit  card account  which he had held for a number of years  in 
October 2018. He says no reason  was given to him and so he stopped making  any 
payments in order to find out why the account had been closed. Mr S says HSBC  has 
reported the missed  payments to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) which is unfair  in 
these circumstances.
HSBC says its entitled in line with the account  terms  and conditions  to withdraw a product or 
end a business relationship. It says it gave two months notice to close  the account and Mr S 
is required to repay  the balance  he owes.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator having received further  information  from HSBC thought the account  had been  
closed as Mr S had missed payments. The investigator also thought  that there wasnt any 
evidence that HSBC had agreed  to suspend any interest due whilst  this complaint was 
ongoing and HSBC was obliged to accurately  report the account position to the CRAs.
Mr S says that information was wrong  and said payments were made and that HSBC  was 
deliberately providing  incorrect  information.  He says he just wanted  to find out why his 
account was closed and says if he had been  told then he would have paid off the balance.
The investigator looked at the complaint again  and requested further information from HSBC 
as it now said Mr S had made  late payments in July and August 2018. The investigator 
issued a second view and thought HSBC hadnt closed the account  in line with the terms 
and conditions by providing the required two months notice and recommended  it pay £250 
compensation. The investigator didnt think there  was any evidence that HSBC had agreed 
to suspend any interest.
HSBC agrees with the investigators view.
Mr S says HSBC should remove  the interest that he now owes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate his frustration here in trying to find out what  took place and why 
his account was closed.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr S would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that HSBC is entitled to close an account by 
providing two months notice. So I dont think there  can be any real dispute here that whilst  
HSBC is entitled  to close an account,  it didnt  provide Mr S with the required two month  
notice. I also accept  that HSBC has provided two different reasons to us and Mr S about why 
it closed the account namely  due to missed  payments and then due to late payments. So I 
Ref: DRN97597822appreciate Mr Ss frustration in those circumstances. But Im satisfied that HSBC  doesnt 
have to provide  any reasons for closing an account and such  decisions are for it to decide 
upon when exercising its commercial judgement.
Im satisfied that the compensation recommended  by the investigator of £250  is fair and 
reasonable and I think  it fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Mr S was 
caused by not receiving  the appropriate account closure notice. I can see that both sides  
agree with that view.
I appreciate Mr S says HSBC should  also refund or remove  the interest that has accumulated 
on his account  as he wanted  to know why the account was closed before he made the 
required payments. Im satisfied that was Mr Ss decision and Ive not seen any evidence  that 
HSBC agreed to suspend any interest  until the complaint was concluded. I have seen letters  
from HSBC to Mr S that clearly state  that the debt was due and interest was being added. So 
in those circumstances I think  Mr S ought  to have known that was the case and that it was his 
responsibility to repay the debt he owed. I also think the interest was correctly  added in line 
with the account terms and conditions where  a payment wasnt  being  made.
Im satisfied that HSBC  has a duty to accurately report  the position of its customers  accounts  
to the CRAs.  So I dont  think HSBC has made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  by reporting Mr 
Ss account position to the CRAs and by reporting  the lack of payments as there is no 
dispute here that Mr S hasnt made the required payments in some  time.
Overall I accept HSBC hasnt dealt with this matter as it should but Im satisfied its made  a 
fair and reasonable compensation offer. For the reasons  Ive explained I dont  require it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr S 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9759782