K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  them  payment protection  insurance  (PPI). 
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage in 2004 
in one of the banks branches.  When they applied for a further advance in 2005  they also 
protected those  repayments with PPI by increasing the benefit level on their existing policy.  
The cover was in Mr Ws sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W 
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  ask for PPI, they werent aware they had it and wouldnt have 
considered it. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive thought carefully  
about Mr and Mrs Ws comments and looked  at the paperwork from the sale. On their 
mortgage application form the options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal  
prominence. And they indicated  that they wanted it and then completed and signed a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit  mandate. In 2005  they again  completed and 
signed a separate PPI application and direct debit mandate agreeing  to increase their level 
of PPI cover. So, overall, I think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr and 
Mrs W chose  to take it out for Mr W. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  in 2004 and 2005, I think that it was. Mr W told 
us he was entitled to three months  full pay if he was sick but the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to his work  benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful claim. It wouldve 
also protected any lump  sum redundancy payment giving more financial security.  Their 
representative says they had a car worth  £5,000  they could have sold.  But the PPI would 
have meant  they didnt  need to take such an extreme step at what would already have been 
a difficult time. 
They were  borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  And the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for them.  So, overall,  I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for Mr and Mrs W if Mr W was sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear in 2004  or 2005, but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont  know that the bank pointed  out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected  by 
Ref: DRN91586152any of the main exclusions. So I dont  think better  information about the policy wouldve 
changed their mind about buying it.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative also raised a number of points about  the policy not being 
suitable because  of Mrs Ws maternity leave  and the possibility of pregnancy  related medical 
conditions. But Mrs W wasnt  covered  by the policy so I dont need to comment on these 
points.  
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs W some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9158615