K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) treated him unfairly  when 
his circumstances  meant he was unable to repay  his loan. In particular he complains that 
Progressive failed to adhere to an agreement to not contact him by phone, and that it 
pressured him to make  payments  that he couldnt  afford.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
March 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold  the complaint Mr B had 
made. And I explained  why I thought it appropriate that I extend the scope of my findings to 
also cover  Progressives  decision to lend to Mr B in the first place. I concluded that the initial 
lending shouldnt have  been agreed.  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  Progressive doesnt agree with my provisional  findings and has 
provided some additional comments. Mr B has said that he accepts my provisional decision. 
He has, however, provided us with some further information  to rebut some of the comments 
that Progressive  made in its response. Although I am only summarising  here what both 
parties have said, I have considered their entire responses carefully before writing this 
decision.
Progressive has pointed out that Mr B has not made any complaint about the initial  lending  
decision  it says his complaint  was solely about  the telephone contact when he was finding 
it difficult to repay his loan. It therefore asks for clarity about why I think it appropriate to 
investigate the lending decision.
Progressive says that the outcome I reached on the lending decision failed to take into 
account all the information it gathered from Mr B. It says that as well as his bank statements, 
it reviewed his credit file and that showed he was managing all his open accounts well, with 
no evidence of defaults, missed payments, late payments, or CCJs. It says that Mr Bs 
financial difficulties only arose when he took further borrowing after the loan from 
Progressive, and when  he had to repay  a tax credit overpayment.
Progressive says that it apologised to Mr B for the telephone calls in its final response  letter.  
It says that, had the calls been deliberate as Ive suggested, then Progressive would most 
likely have continued to add interest and charges  to Mr Bs account when he fell into arrears.  
It says that at all times it engaged with the DMC that Mr B was using. All the payments made  
via the DMC were applied  to Mr Bs account, and it says that no offer of payment was 
refused. But it says the DMC doesnt ask consumers for evidence  of their expenditure. So it 
doesnt think it unreasonable  for Progressive to conduct its own, evidence based, checks.
Progressive highlights that our adjudicator recommended an award of £100  to Mr B for the 
trouble and upset  hed been caused  by the telephone calls. But it says that I increased that 
amount to £500.  It asks that I provide  the rationale for that increase.
Ref: DRN99762672In response to those  comments  Mr B has provided us with some further information and 
evidence. He says that Progressive had already sent him an apology  for making telephone 
calls to him in a letter sent on 10 April 2018. So the call I specifically mentioned  in my 
provisional decision was made after that first apology. And he has provided a letter from his 
DMC, dated  13 April 2018, that says Progressive has rejected the monthly  payment offer 
that Mr B had made.  So the DMC  warned  Mr B that Progressive might continue  with its 
standard collection processes.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not persuaded 
that I should change my provisional findings.  However I would like to comment further on the 
points that have been raised by both parties.
In my provisional decision I explained  carefully the powers that I hold as an ombudsman. 
And that at times it is right that I should  consider a wider set of circumstances than the 
specific complaint a consumer might  have made.  I think it entirely appropriate that I use 
those powers in dealing with this complaint. Mr Bs management of his finances had already 
failed by the time he was granted this loan. And the problems that arose as a result  of his 
arrears, and formed the basis of Mr Bs complaint, are directly related to the initial lending 
decision just a few months earlier.
I explained in my provisional decision  that I had reviewed the information  Progressive had 
sent us showing  the information it had gathered, using  a third-party tool, from Mr Bs bank 
accounts. I agree that Progressive didnt provide us with the results of any credit checks  it 
might have done. But I dont think that makes any difference  to my decision. Mr Bs bank 
statements clearly show the extent of his borrowing. Whilst a credit check  might show  he 
was managing to make  his repayments  when  they were due, it is clear from the extent of his 
borrowing that he wasnt doing so in a sustainable manner. He was simply taking  further 
credit to allow him to meet his existing commitments. I dont think, given the clear  extent of 
Mr Bs indebtedness, that any responsible lender  could take any great comfort from a lack of 
evidence of defaults, missed payments, late payments, or CCJs.
I dont think it is sufficient  for Progressive to simply apologise to Mr B for the telephone calls 
it made, after its agreement to only contact him by email or letter. Mr B has told us that 
Progressive apologised to him for making  the calls in April 2018. But it still continued  to 
contact him by phone, culminating  in the call I reviewed in July 2018. As I said in my 
provisional decision I dont think these calls were accidental but were  a deliberate attempt  to 
place pressure on Mr B.
I do not accept, as Progressive has suggested, that pausing the addition of interest and 
charges on Mr Bs account,  as the regulator might reasonably expect it to do when a 
consumer was in financial difficulties, in any way mitigates the calls that it made. I think  the 
two are entirely separate  issues.  The calls were, in my opinion, to place pressure on Mr B to 
settle his outstanding balance. Progressives  decision  to pause the addition of interest  and 
charges still left the principal that Mr B had borrowed, and the interest that had been accrued 
in the early months of the loan, to be repaid.
Ref: DRN99762673Mr B has told us that he has now repaid the loan.  I havent seen any evidence of that 
repayment but I have no reason to doubt what he says. But it seems clear  that Progressive 
didnt engage  with the DMC as positively as it suggests.  The DMC told Mr B that Progressive 
had rejected the monthly payment offer that he had made. And it seems, as the DMC 
thought might happen, that Progressive continued  with its standard  collection processes. But 
since the loan has now been repaid I dont intend  to make any further findings on this part of 
the complaint.
When assessing what would be a reasonable amount to be paid for any trouble and upset  
caused to a consumer I will generally base my conclusions on the testimony provided by the 
consumer, and the impact  they have suffered. But I think it is entirely  reasonable to consider 
that trouble and upset to be far greater when I conclude that the businesss actions were  not 
accidental, but deliberate.  To any reasonable observer, deliberate actions are likely to cause 
far greater  upset than inadvertent ones. And that is the reason  that I consider the sum of 
£500 to be a more reasonable reflection of the trouble and upset Progressive caused to Mr B 
by its deliberate actions  in making repeated phone calls to him.
So, In summary, I dont think Progressive should have given this loan to Mr B. I think 
Progressive ignoring  its agreement to not contact  Mr B by telephone would have caused him 
trouble and upset.
putting things right
I dont think that Progressive should  have agreed  to lend to Mr B in June 2017.  
If the loan has been  fully repaid, Progressive should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr B paid on the loan
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
But if a balance in fact remains outstanding Progressive should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr B made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Bs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Progressive should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
if reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Progressive that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree  an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B. Progressive should accept, without the need for 
further evidence,  any reasonable  proposals presented  by Mr B or a debt 
management charity on his behalf.
And in either case Progressive should;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan
Ref: DRN99762674pay the sum of £500 to Mr B in respect  of the trouble  and upset he has been  caused. 
That amount should  be paid directly  to Mr B and cannot be used by Progressive to 
reduce any outstanding  balance  owed by Mr B unless he explicitly agrees.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to take off tax from this interest. 
Progressive must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  Progressive Money  Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99762675EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B complains that Progressive Money Limited  (Progressive) treated him unfairly  when his 
circumstances meant he was unable to repay his loan. In particular he complains that Progressive  
failed to adhere to an agreement to not contact him by phone, and that it pressured him to make 
payments that he couldnt afford.
background
Mr B was given a single loan by Progressive. He borrowed £2,000 in June 2017 that he agreed to 
repay over the following 24 months. In December 2017 Mr B failed to make his repayment, and 
shortly afterwards a debt management charity (DMC) got in touch  with the lender on Mr Bs behalf.  In 
early 2018  the DMC proposed a reduced repayment based on its analysis  of what Mr B could afford  
to repay. Progressive didnt accept this reduced payment and asked  Mr B to provide evidence of his 
financial circumstances.
In April 2018  Progressive responded to a complaint Mr B had made. As part of that response it 
agreed to only contact  him in writing.  But Progressive continued to try to contact Mr B by telephone.  In 
total it says it made six attempts  that were unsuccessful before a final successful call in July 2018.  In 
response to a further complaint Mr B made after the last call Progressive offered him £20 in vouchers  
as an apology  for the calls being made.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  that Progressive had 
treated Mr B fairly when he notified it of his financial difficulties. He thought that it would  have been 
appropriate for the lender  to cease adding interest to Mr Bs account  at that time.  And he didnt think 
the vouchers Mr B had been  offered in compensation for the phone  calls were  enough. He asked 
Progressive to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble  and upset hed been caused.
Progressive didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved informally, 
it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
As Progressive will be aware, unlike the Courts, I am not limited to looking only at the issues a 
consumer has focused  on in their complaint. Our approach is "inquisitorial" - rather  than the 
"adversarial" procedures of the courts, where  the lawyers  for the two sides  "fight it out". By law, I am 
required to resolve complaints fairly. This means I decide what questions  to ask to get to the bottom  
of things. And it means I can concentrate  on the relevant  facts of the case, rather than the complaint 
as presented.
Here Mr B hasnt complained that the loan itself shouldnt have been agreed. But he faced  difficulties 
making his repayments very soon after the loan had been taken out. And I havent  seen anything  that 
makes me think those problems  arose as a result of a change in his circumstances such  as the loss 
of his income, or an unexpected rise in his expenditure. So it seems to me that the matters that Mr B 
has complained about arise  as a direct result  of Progressives decision to lend to him in the first place. 
So in this decision I will also be considering whether Progressive should  have granted  the loan in 
June 2017. And I will deal with that matter  first.
Ref: DRN99762676Weve set out our approach  to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website and Ive 
kept this in mind  while deciding whether  this loan should have been agreed.  The rules  and regulations 
at the time Progressive gave this loan to Mr B required  it to carry  out a reasonable  and proportionate 
assessment of whether  he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner.  This 
assessment is sometimes  referred  to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive had to think about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant 
that Progressive had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of any repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet higher 
repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Progressive did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr B.
Progressive gathered some information about  Mr B before  it agreed the loan. Using a third- party tool 
it accessed the data from Mr Bs bank statements (I assume with his permission). That allowed it to 
look at the money that was moving into and out of Mr Bs bank account. From  that information 
Progressive calculated  how much money Mr B had left over each month.
Mr B was entering into a significant  commitment  with Progressive. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I would expect that Progressive would want  to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mr Bs financial circumstances before it agreed 
to lend to him. I think  that the checks Progressive  did allowed it to achieve  that aim. I think 
Progressives checks were  proportionate.
But simply performing  proportionate  checks isnt always  enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that is shown  by its checks. In some cases  that will lead a responsible 
lender to gather  further information  about  a consumers circumstances. And sometimes it might lead a 
lender to decline  a loan application outright.  And that is what  I think  should have happened  here.
Ref: DRN99762677Progressives checks showed  that Mr B was heavily  indebted to a large number of different lenders. In 
the month before  the loan was granted Mr B had taken over £4,000 of new borrowing. And at the time 
of the loan he was repaying more than ten short term and/or high cost loans. And his bank account  
was significantly overdrawn. I think taken together those were a clear  indicator that Mr B was facing 
severe problems managing  his finances and that he would  be unable to repay any additional 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So I dont think that Progressive should have agreed to lend to 
Mr B.
It isnt surprising that Mr B started to face problems repaying this loan only a few months later.  It 
appears that he acted responsibly in dealing  with the problems that he faced and sought help from a 
debt management charity. As a result of those actions  the DMC identified  that Mr B owed more than 
£54,000 across 19 different credit accounts.  The DMC provided Progressive with a breakdown of 
Mr Bs income and expenditure, and an estimate of the monthly payment that he could afford  to pay 
on the loan.
Progressive should be aware that in circumstances  such as these the regulator requires  lenders to 
show forbearance and treat consumers with due consideration. And its rules also suggest  that 
lenders shouldnt refuse reasonable  affordable repayment proposals made
by the borrower, debt counsellor  or other person authorised by borrower . Here I can see that 
Progressive was provided with a comprehensive breakdown of Mr Bs available money and how that 
could be fairly  split across  his many creditors. I dont think it was reasonable,  or necessary, for 
Progressive to require Mr B to provide  it with copies of his bank statements to evidence what the 
DMC had compiled about his finances.
In February 2018 Mr B asked Progressive to only contact him by email or letter.  He asked that it 
stopped calling him. Progressive agreed to that request.  But, from Progressives  own records, it tried 
to call him six times over the following  months. Those calls were unsuccessful, but in July 2018 Mr B 
did answer another of Progressives calls. I have listened to a recording of that call.
At the outset of the call Mr B made it clear to the caller that Progressive had agreed to not make any 
contact with him by phone.  That comment, whilst acknowledged by the agent, was met with what  
I can only describe  as indifference. He made no attempt to apologise for calling Mr B nor any attempt  
to terminate the call. That leads me to think that Progressive had little intention  of abiding by Mr Bs 
request to stop calling him. I would conclude  that the failed calls it had previously made were not 
accidental, but a deliberate attempt  to place  pressure  on Mr B to either settle his arrears, or provide 
detailed evidence of his financial difficulties.
It is clear, from what I said earlier about the extent  of Mr Bs debts, that it would be impossible for him 
to manage an on-going relationship  with each lender in the way that Progressive appears to have  
expected. That is why Mr B engaged the services of a DMC. I have no doubts  that the debts he faced 
were extremely  distressing  for him, and not something he would want to discuss with numerous third 
parties. Whilst it isnt unreasonable for Progressive to seek  repayment of what  Mr B owed  it had a 
detailed explanation of his circumstances  and a realistic and affordable proposal for how his debt 
might be repaid.
Given that I have found the loan shouldnt  have been agreed, I am intending to ask Progressive  to 
remove all the interest and any charges  that it has added to Mr Bs account. Those are the sorts  of 
steps that I might  have expected  to see a lender take when exercising forbearance. So I dont need to 
make any additional findings here about how Progressive  treated Mr Bs financial difficulties.  But, 
I have no doubts about the distress and inconvenience  that would have been caused to Mr B by 
Progressives repeated and, I think, deliberate attempts  to contact him by telephone.  So I am making  
an additional award  to Mr B for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
In summary, I dont think Progressive should have given this loan to Mr B. And when he faced  
financial difficulties I think Progressive should  have  reasonably accepted the reduced repayment 
proposed by the DMC.  I think Progressive  ignoring its agreement  to not contact Mr B by telephone 
would have caused him trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN9976267