K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has unfairly registered a default on 
his credit file for a debt he had agreed a repayment plan on.
background
Mr I agreed a repayment plan with a business  for a credit card debt in 2006. In July 2017 
that debt was reassigned to Link. Mr I says he continued to make the repayments via a third 
party debt management  company but Link registered a default on his credit  file in October 
2018. He says at the time the balance he owed was about £40 and those actions were unfair 
and have affected his credit  score.  Mr I would like the default removed and says the account 
balance has now been paid off.
Link says the account  was assigned  to it in July 2017 with a balance of £3,212.  It says Mr I 
paid it £2,365 leaving a balance of about £847. Link says Mr Is account was in arrears and 
so correctly registered a default.  
Mr I brought his complaint to us and our investigator  upheld it. The investigator thought  that 
Mr Is payments were £43.56 short at the relevant time as he had paid different amounts to 
Link. And in those circumstances Links actions were  not reasonable as it knew Mr I was in 
financial difficulties and should have treated him positively and sympathetically. The 
investigator thought  Link should remove the default.
Mr I agrees with the investigators recommendation but Link says it does not and has asked 
that it be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
Im satisfied that Link ought to have known that Mr I was in financial difficulties as it was 
assigned a debt that a long term repayment plan had been agreed with a debt management 
company. So in those circumstances Link ought  to have dealt positively and sympathetically  
with Mr I. I can see that Mr I made payments that were close  to the amount he was required 
to under the repayment plan and in those circumstances I dont think  Link acted reasonably 
or proportionately  by registering a default  on Mr Is credit file when the plan was close  to 
ending. And where  the difference in what should have been paid since  the debt was 
assigned to Link was, on the face of it, under £50.
I appreciate that Link sent Mr I at least two letters about the arrears and I accept that Mr I 
ought to have contacted  it far sooner than he did. I also accept that Mr I ought to have told 
Link about any payments  that were more or less than the agreed repayments. So I accept on 
balance that Mr I should accept some  responsibility  for what took place.
I have looked  at the Information Commissioners Office  guidance  on the registering of a 
default. And I can see it says a default should be registered where a relationship between 
the parties has broken down or where there are arrears between  three  and six months. Im 
not satisfied either ground is made  out here. I think this was a long term repayment plan that 
on the whole  Mr I had kept to for over 10 years  repaying a debt of £18,000. And whilst  I 
Ref: DRN90357122accept there  were differences in the amount Mr I repaid I cant see that Mr I was between 
three and six months in arrears.
For those reasons I dont  think  Link acted  fairly  by registering a default in these 
circumstances. I can see that the debt has now been repaid in full which I think  also provides 
evidence that the relationship between Link and Mr I had not broken down. I dont think any 
compensation is appropriate as I have explained that I would  have expected Mr I to have 
spoken to Link when he received the default  notice letters.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited
to remove the default  it registered on Mr Is credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9035712