K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains thats hes being wrongly chased for a debt by Lantern  Debt Recovery 
Services Ltd.
background
Mr S received letters from Lantern about repayment  of three  short term loans he took out 
with third parties.
But Mr S says he doesnt remember taking out the loans, and that Lantern hasnt provided 
any evidence that he received the money.  He also says Lantern  hasnt demonstrated its 
entitled to recover  the money.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. From what hed seen, he 
was satisfied Mr S had made payments towards  the debts before theyd been passed  to 
Lantern. The business had also provided copies of the loan agreements.  Overall,  the 
investigator didnt  consider it was unreasonable for Lantern to chase Mr S for recovery  of the 
debt.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
[NB  checking Bs records about 1 Month  Lon loan.  No record of that in SAR. Only got 
copy of loan agreement].
Lantern bought several of Mr Ss debts from the third party  loan companies  at various times 
between 2012  and 2017. Lantern  used  to trade under a different name,  but changed its 
name in 2018.  
Lantern chased Mr S for the debts, but Mr S disputed one of the amounts which was for 
£1,537.45. Lantern clarified  that this amount was made up of amounts  he owed on three 
short-term loans. It provided copies of reconstituted  credit agreements for those loans. 
Mr S says these arent evidence that he took out the loans, and that Lantern  hasnt  provided  
anything to show that the money was paid into his bank  account.  
But Lantern has provided evidence to show the contact it had with Mr S about [two] of the 
debts since it took responsibility for them. I can see that there were various emails between 
Mr S and Lantern, where  he agreed  repayment plans to repay what he owed. On balance, I 
think its unlikely Mr S wouldve engaged in this type of discussion with Lantern if he hadnt 
received the loan monies. 
[Need to say something about the 1 Month  Loan amount. Copy  agreement possibly enough].  
Ref: DRN93763432Lantern has also asked Mr S to complete a fraud investigation report if he still disputes  that 
the debts are his. But Im not aware that Mr S has done this. 
Having considered all of the evidence  thats been provided, on balance I think  its likely that 
Mr S took out the loans that Lantern is trying to recover. It would be for a court to decide 
whether those debts  are enforceable. 
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that Lantern has acted 
incorrectly. I think its fair and reasonable for it to continue to seek repayment of the 
outstanding debt from Mr S (to the extent that its legally entitled  to do so). 
For these reasons, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  Lantern  to stop 
contacting Mr S about what he owes, to waive the debt or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9376343