K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement 
with FirstRand Bank  Limited  (FirstRand),  and matters relating to the associated  warranty.
background
In July 2017 Mr W obtained a used car from a dealer, through  a 48 month hire purchase 
agreement with FirstRand.  The car was nine years  old and had done 99,456 miles when 
Mr W got it. The cash price of the car was £4,488. Mr W was also charged an additional  sum 
of £499 (including VAT) for a 15 month warranty.
In April 2018 Mr W experienced problems with the car, and took it to a garage where  
problems with the timing  chain  were identified. Mr W was told it would cost £1,038 to repair.  
However, when Mr W contacted his warranty provider in order to make a claim, he was told 
there was no warranty in place. 
Mr W then attempted to contact the dealer, but they were no longer trading. As such, Mr W 
contacted the finance  provider  FirstRand.
FirstRand offered to pay for the cost of a new 12 month warranty,  although  it warned  that the 
repairs were unlikely to be covered, not least because the fault would be considered a pre-
existing condition. Mr W didnt accept this. Instead, he thought that FirstRand  should  pay for 
the repairs to the car, or allow him to reject  the vehicle and refund his money.
As the two parties couldnt  agree, Mr W brought his complaint  to this service.  Our 
Investigator concluded that problems were  most  likely a result of wear and tear  which  he 
felt was acceptable on a car of this age and mileage - rather  than evidence  that the car was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale. Our Investigator invited Mr W to arrange for an 
independent inspection of the car if he wanted to demonstrate that this was not the case, but 
Mr W wasnt willing to do this.
Our investigator then considered the warranty that shouldve been  sold with the car. He 
agreed that Mr W had lost out, as he had paid for a warranty that hadnt been provided. 
However, he didnt  think  that Mr W should be allowed  to reject the car on this basis. 
Having looked  at the warranty terms and conditions, our Investigator concluded that, even if 
the warranty had been in place, it wouldnt have covered the timing  chain repairs, as it only 
covered sudden failures or breakages. This was confirmed by the warranty provider. As 
such, even though FirstRand had assumed  responsibility for the missing warranty,  our 
investigator didnt  think  FirstRand should  be held responsible  for the repair cost. Instead, he 
suggested that Mr W should either be paid back for the warranty he bought  (including 
interest), or that FirstRand should  pay for a new warranty.
Mr W didnt accept either option, so the case has been passed  to me for a decision. For 
clarity, I understand  that the car has not been  repaired and remains  at the garage,  where it 
has been since the fault was diagnosed.  Mr W has stopped making  payments under  the 
agreement, and I understand he has been told the car will be repossessed and sold, and he 
will be pursued for any shortfall. Mr W has told us he is concerned about further devaluation 
of the car in the months  it has been at the garage, and that he cannot afford  to continue 
making repayments due to the extra travelling costs  he has incurred getting to and from work 
without a car.
Ref: DRN92324342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the timing  chain is a significant component  of the cars engine, I dont think  that 
problems developing  in this area indicate  that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr 
W got it. Instead, I think that its more  likely  to be the result of ongoing  wear  and tear, which 
is reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.  
The car was 9 years old and had done  nearly 100,000 miles when it was sold.  The cash  
price was significantly less than the same  model bought  new,  which  reflects  the previous 
usage and associated wear and tear. While I accept most unfortunate,  it is possible  that 
parts could fail or require work, even within a short time frame.
Mr W thinks its unfair that he only got approximately 2,300  miles of usage out of the car 
before a fairly significant and costly  fault was identified. I can see why he was disappointed 
by this, but I dont  agree  that its unreasonable, given  what  he knew  about the car when he 
got it. In particular, the age and mileage of the car, which were not insignificant.  So, I dont 
think the FirstRand is responsible for redressing any quality issues  in its capacity as the 
finance provider.  
As such,  Ive gone on to consider Mr Ws concerns in relation to the warranty.  Its clear that 
he has lost out here,  as he paid £499 for a 15 month warranty that never existed.  However, 
a key question  is whether  the warranty wouldve covered the fault that arose with the timing 
chain in any case. Having reviewed the terms and conditions it appears  that it wouldnt,  as 
wear and tear isnt covered.  The company that wouldve supplied the warranty  has 
confirmed this, stating  that, because the chain  had stretched, it has not suffered sudden and 
unforeseen failure, so would not have been covered under the agreement. So, even if the 
warranty had been put in place as agreed, it wouldnt  have  paid out for the repairs  so I 
cant ask FirstRand to cover the repairs on this basis.
I can understand why Mr W finds this frustrating. He has said he was given assurances at 
the time he got the car, and that he decided to take out the warranty  on this basis, to give 
him peace of mind.  I cant say for certain what Mr W was told, but Ive thought  about  what 
wouldve happened if Mr W had been given the correct information about the warranty at the 
time.
Had Mr W understood that the warranty wouldnt  have provided cover for wear  and tear, its 
possible he wouldnt have taken it. But, whether or not Mr W wouldve gone ahead  with the 
warranty, I think its likely he wouldve still wanted the car. So, like our investigator, I dont 
think allowing Mr W to reject the car is a proportionate remedy.  
However, I do think Mr W is entitled to a refund of any charges applied for the warranty itself. 
This is because  whether or not he wouldve taken it if he had fully understood what  it 
offered  the cover was never provided. Nor did Mr W enjoy the peace  of mind arising from 
thinking he was covered,  as it became clear during the supposed warranty period that he 
was not. So Mr W should be compensated for this.
As the warranty Mr W tried to take out wouldve now expired, I dont think  the correct remedy 
in this case is to provide  a new warranty from this point forward.  Instead, Mr Ws finance  
Ref: DRN92324343agreement should  be reworked without the warranty, and his monthly payments should  be 
recalculated to take account of this. Any payments  made towards the cost of the warranty 
should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest  per year from the date the payments were  made  
until the date of the refund.
my final decision
It is my final decision that FirstRand Bank  Limited should pay Mr W fair compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9232434