K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that their application for a further advance  on their mortgage  was 
declined by National Westminster Bank  Plc. They want NatWest  to justify why the 
application was declined and to reconsider their application.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with NatWest  taken out in May 2013.  It is on a capital and 
interest repayment basis and since 2013 they have had two product switches,  the last being 
in January 2018.
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs M wanted  to borrow a further £25,000  to spend on debt 
consolidation and home improvements. On 20 February 2019 the application was declined,  
due to a failed credit score. NatWest was asked to reconsider the application but the bank 
said it wasnt able to overturn a decision based on a failed  credit score.
Mr and Mrs M complained to NatWest. They say they have never missed a payment on their 
debt commitments  and the £25,000  would take their total borrowing to £100,000 on a 
property worth around £178,000. They cant see that there is any risk to NatWest  in letting 
them borrow  the money. They are also unhappy  at the lack of transparency in NatWests  
explanation of why the application was declined.
NatWest didnt uphold  the complaint so it was brought  to us where an adjudicator  looked  at 
it. The adjudicator  explained to Mr and Mrs M that NatWest was entitled to decline the 
application and that it didnt have  to give Mr and Mrs M detailed reasons  for this.
Mr and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They say that there is 
nothing in their credit  files that they believe would  impact  on their application. They believe 
NatWest should  be forced  to tell us what is stopping them  from being  given the further 
advance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
I will explain  at the outset  that what I have to decide  here is whether or not NatWest  has 
acted fairly  and reasonably in its decision to decline the application. Its not my role to 
reassess the application and decide  whether or not NatWest should have granted  it, or to 
substitute my own lending decision for that of NatWest.
NatWest is entitled  to decide  what its lending  criteria  are and who it will lend money  to. Its 
entitled to take into account whatever criteria  it deems relevant and appropriate. This is an 
example of the bank exercising its commercial discretion  and is something in which  we 
wouldnt normally become  involved. Like all banks, NatWests lending criteria are 
commercially sensitive.  There is a good  reason for this; if banks were to publish their 
detailed lending criteria,  this could result in applicants  manipulating their finances to fit the 
criteria.
Ref: DRN99380442Im satisfied NatWest considered Mr and Mrs Ms application fairly  and, having  done so, was 
entitled to decline  it on the basis of credit  scoring. I know this is disappointing for them but I 
dont think NatWest has done anything wrong.  I dont  have  the power to force the bank  to 
disclose its lending criteria for this application.
I think its also worth mentioning that Mr and Mrs Ms credit score (available  from Noddle, 
Experian, etc.) is not the same  as NatWest carrying out credit  scoring  for a loan application. 
Credit scoring generally includes  looking at information held by credit  reference agencies. 
But it also includes other factors,  for example, previous account conduct, level of debt 
commitments and any previous debt consolidation.
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs M said about their finances  that they have never missed a 
payment and consider themselves to be a good  risk. But I note that in February 2015 
NatWest declined a further advance application for debt consolidation. The account notes 
from the time show that this was due to unsatisfactory account conduct. 
Ive also noted  what Mr and Mrs M said in their email to us dated 18 April 2019. It is worth 
quoting this in detail.
We simply wanted to release some of the equity from our property, valued by 
NatWest at £178,000,  which would have  made  our total borrowings £100,000, 
secured against  the house.
The whole purpose of this was to give us a better quality of life, with easier monthly 
repayments being made to just NatWest, whom  we have never missed a payment to, 
rather than various companies  all charging  interest.  I cannot  believe that the bank 
would rather that we struggled on paying  various loans, credit cards, etc. rather  than 
helping us out.
We both have very good credit scores so can someone please explain the exact 
reason we were  unsuccessful? By my reckoning, owing £100,000 against a property 
valued at £178,000 is not a risk so why are they saying no? 
It seems that instead  of helping us to get on an even keel the bank would 
rather stand back and watch  us struggle, getting further into debt. (my 
emphasis)
So I think this may provide an explanation  as to why the application was declined.  By their 
own admission, Mr and Mrs M were struggling with their finances, in particular unsecured 
debt. 
It is always open to Mr and Mrs M to reapply for a further advance in the future, at which  
point NatWest will assess it against its lending  criteria in place at that time. But in relation to 
the application made in February  2019,  I cant see that NatWest  has done anything  wrong in 
the way it assessed the application.
If Mr and Mrs M are in financial difficulty,  they might find it helpful to speak to a free debt 
advice service such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. We can provide them with contact 
details for those agencies,  if theyd  like us to.
Ref: DRN99380443my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 September 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9938044