K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale and subsequent  administration of a Chelsea Building 
Society (CBS)-branded mortgage  held with Yorkshire Building  Society  by the late Mrs Ws 
estate. The complaint is brought by Mr W  the late Mrs Ws son  in his capacity as 
executor of her estate.
background
The complaint is multi-stranded and goes  right back to when the mortgage  was first taken 
out - in 1990  - by Mrs W and her husband;  he died in 1997.  However,  by way of a jurisdiction 
decision issued in June  of this year, an ombudsman colleague concluded that our remit to 
consider the complaint was limited  to matters covered  in two final responses from CBS, 
dated 20 October 2017 and 6 September 2018.  
The points covered in those final responses  were summarised by the investigator as being:
Mr W was unhappy  that CBS is unable to offer him a face to face meeting;
CBS is pursuing action for possession of the mortgaged  property;
CBS hasnt taken  into consideration  Mr Ws proposals to maintain  the monthly interest 
payments to the account until he is in a position  to agree a sale
Mr W is unhappy that CBS stopped  calling  annually on Mrs W after a manager Ill call 
Mr B retired;  and
Mr B didnt  tell Mrs W that the mortgage could have been changed to a lower interest 
rate.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr W has asked that it be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Before I address the specific merits, Ill start with some general observations. Were not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police  their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual  
disputes between  businesses and their customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  
of the courts. 
Were impartial and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
To be clear, Im not revisiting  my ombudsman colleagues decision on our remit to consider 
this complaint. My review is confined to looking at the heads of complaint set out in the 
summary above on their merits.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr W, in that on the parts of the complaint that I have jurisdiction  to determine, 
I dont find that CBS has done  anything  to warrant my awarding  compensation to Mrs Ws 
estate. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN97459412Its clear Mr W believes passionately  that he can better resolve the matters  hes unhappy 
about if he has a face-to- face meeting with CBS. Thats  a perfectly legitimate view and I 
would never  question Mr Ws right to hold it. But it seems CBS thinks differently, and thats  a 
legitimate view too. Its possible a meeting between the parties  could be beneficial, but its 
not something Im going to order.
CBS initiated legal  action for possession because the mortgage in question is outstanding 
and both of the original  borrowers have now died. Lenders arent required to have infinite 
patience; they ultimately have the right to take reasonable steps to recover  money  owed to 
them, including if need be, taking court action to enforce their security. Thats  what CBS has 
done here and whilst Ive no doubt its unwelcome  to Mr W, I cant say its unfair or that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  should seek to interfere with or otherwise hinder any court  
action CBS has taken  and might yet take.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from CBS in a final decision on this complaint. 
The court action may be unwelcome to Mr W but in all the circumstances  I cant  say its 
unfair to his late mothers estate. 
If the case comes back to court, CBS will have to persuade the court  that granting a 
possession order would  be appropriate. Mr W should have the opportunity to make  his own 
representations to the court before it makes  a decision  on what should happen. It wouldnt 
be right for me to pre-empt  that here.
I dont think its fair to say CBS hasnt considered M Ws proposals for the account whilst he 
tries to sell the property.  The contact  notes Ive seen suggests it has considered  them but 
doesnt find them viable.  Thats an exercise of commercial judgement  that Ive no reason to 
second guess  or otherwise interfere with. CBS has duty to treat consumers fairly, but here, 
both consumers are deceased. No one is at risk of losing  their home because of CBSs  
decision to commence legal action rather than agree to Mr Ws proposal. 
Making personal visits to a borrower  on a periodic  basis isnt something CBS routinely 
provided, then or now. This was something  Mr B elected to do of his own volition. It didnt 
create an obligation on CBS to continue with the visits after Mr B had retired. 
Lastly, lenders  generally dont have to prompt borrowers to consider changing mortgage 
products. If a borrower asks about doing so, then Id expect a lender to conduct  any such 
discussion with skill and care, but the evidence simply isnt available for me to make  any 
kind of judgement about whether Mrs W ever raised the subject, with Mr B or any other  
officer of the business. 
I know Mr W feels very strongly about  this complaint; thats apparent  from the force  and 
eloquence with which hes brought it. But within the limits that our jurisdiction gives me, 
I dont find that CBS has done  anything  to breach its regulatory obligations to Mrs Ws 
estate, or more generally treated  the estate unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold any part of 
the complaint  that my remit  allows me to consider. My final decision concludes this services 
Ref: DRN97459413consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9745941