K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the refusal  by Health-on-line Company UK Limited (HOL)  to 
refund premiums for his travel insurance  cover which  forms part of his private  medical 
insurance policy.
background
Mr B lives on the Isle of Man. In February  2013, he took out a private medical insurance 
policy. He elected  to include travel insurance as part of his cover.  The policy  was sold and 
administered by HOL.  The policy was underwritten by HOLs  parent company, AXA PPP. 
In 2016, Mr B complained to HOL that he had been misled  at the time of sale into believing  
that the travel insurance would cover repatriation  between the UK mainland and the Isle of 
Man. HOL didnt accept  that it had misled  Mr B in this way but it nonetheless offered  to pay 
him £500 as a gesture  of goodwill which was slightly more  than the amount Mr B had paid in 
premiums for the travel insurance section  of his cover until that time (in other words, the 
policy years  starting in 2013, 2014  and 2015). Mr B accepted the offer.  However, MrB says 
he didnt realise  the travel  insurance  was an optional  part of the policy and so he didnt 
cancel it at that time because he wanted  to maintain  the core private medical  cover.
In September  2018, Mr B became aware  that the travel insurance  was optional. He 
cancelled it and either HOL or AXA PPP (its not clear  to me which) agreed  to return  the 
appropriate proportion  of his premiums since the start of the policy  year. Mr B asked HOL to 
also refund  the cost of his travel cover  for the policy years starting in 2016 and 2017 but it 
refused. It said when it resolved his complaint in 2016 it made  clear  that repatriation  from the 
UK mainland  to the Isle of Man wasnt covered under his policy. He made  no request to 
cancel the travel insurance at that time and it wouldnt remove the cover without his consent. 
It said it had been  up to Mr B to request  the removal of the cover.
Mr B was unhappy at HOLs response and referred  his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Each year,  when Mr Bs policy was due for renewal,  he was sent a membership guide. This 
guide explained that Mr Bs cover comprised core cover  and various options. It listed these 
options, including travel cover, under a heading The options youve chosen and stated 
Remember, you can add or remove Options to match your needs. I recognise  that this 
should arguably have made Mr B aware  that he could cancel the travel  cover without 
impacting on the rest of his cover.
However, when HOL issued its final response  on Mr Bs 2016 complaint, it was clear that he 
was dissatisfied  with the travel cover. HOL agreed to reimburse  Mr Bs premiums for the first 
three years of his cover. I would have expected HOL to have asked Mr B at this stage 
whether he wanted  to remove  the travel cover, or to have at least pointed out that this was 
possible. I can understand  how its failure to mention anything  about removing the travel 
cover may have led Mr B to assume it was an integral part of his private medical  insurance,  
particularly as his membership certificate didnt separate out its cost in any way.
Despite the issue  over repatriation, Mr B may have found the travel cover useful. But Mr B 
has provided evidence  that in February 2017 he took out a separate  annual travel  insurance 
Ref: DRN94685542policy with the AXA group which provided the desired repatriation. Im satisfied that Mr B 
wouldnt have continued paying for the duplicate (except for the repatriation) travel cover  
with the same insurer through his private  medical insurance policy if hed known that this 
could be removed. I think that if HOL had been clearer in its final response  letter  of 2016, 
this situation would  have been  avoided.
Mr B should  arguably  have made  his request for a refund to AXA PPP on the grounds that, 
regardless of who was at fault, it was receiving  premiums for duplicate  cover.  However, 
given that he has instead raised  his complaint against HOL and there  was a failing on its 
part, I think the pragmatic  and fair outcome  in this case is that it should pay Mr B 
compensation equivalent to the premium  relating  to his travel cover  for 2017, plus interest.  
Furthermore, if Mr B can provide evidence in response to this provisional decision to show 
that he also held travel insurance covering  the year before,  I think HOL should  pay similar 
compensation for that year as well.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. He also provided evidence to show he held a travel 
insurance policy in 2016.
HOL didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It said that when it didnt  hear back  from Mr B 
following its final response letter on his 2016  complaint, it assumed he had been content  to 
accept the compensation and continue with his policy as it was. It said it expected members 
to read their policy documents and considered the documents sent to Mr B at renewal made 
clear that travel cover wasnt a core part of his policy  and could therefore be removed. It 
pointed out that private medical  insurance  and standalone travel insurance were dealt with 
by completely separate departments in AXA PPP and so it wouldnt have been aware Mr B 
had taken out his travel insurance policy unless he told it of this.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge in my provisional  decision that Mr B should arguably have been  aware  from 
his renewal documents that he could cancel  the travel cover while retaining the rest of his 
private medical insurance policy. But I also go on to explain how HOLs  final response letter 
in 2016 may have led him to assume  this wasnt possible. It is unfortunate that HOL 
assumed Mr Bs lack of response to this letter indicated  he was content  to retain the travel  
cover but I think the letter should have made his options clearer.  If HOL had done this, Im 
satisfied that he would  have cancelled the travel cover. And while  I accept that HOL wouldnt 
have known he had taken out another policy,  I still consider the fair outcome is that it 
compensates him for the appropriate proportion of his premiums.
Mr B has provided satisfactory evidence to show he held a standalone travel  insurance 
policy in 2016  and 2017. HOL has confirmed that the cost of the travel cover  option for these 
two years was £185.40 and £202.56,  respectively. These are therefore the amounts which  
HOL should now pay to Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN94685543I require Health-on-line Company UK Limited  to pay Mr B compensation equivalent to the 
premium for his travel cover for the year starting  in February 2016 (£185.40) and February 
2017 (£202.56)  and to add interest  to this compensation at the annual  simple rate of 8%, 
calculated from the date Mr B paid the premium until the date of settlement.* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Health-on-line Company  UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr B a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9468554