K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with Startline that he 
signed in September 2015.  The car was nearly seven years old and it had been driven for 
more than 62,000 miles.  Mr H says that there were issues  with the car cutting out within a 
few months of it being supplied to him. The dealer  replaced the cars battery in May 2016 
and it says that Mr H hasnt contacted it about  any issues with the car since  then. Mr H took 
the car to another garage for a service and MOT  in October 2016  and he complains that his 
warranty hasnt covered the £672.28 that he paid to the garage.  Startline issued  a 
termination notice  to Mr H in June 2017  and it recovered the car in April 2018.  Mr H 
complained to Startline  in April 2018  that the car wasnt fit for purpose because  of the battery  
issues. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
was a lack of evidence to show that the car was faulty at the point of sale and that no further  
issues were reported  after the dealer replaced  the cars battery. And she said that she 
couldnt hold Startline accountable for the costs that Mr H had paid to the other  garage. 
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that Startline has fraudulently  taken payments from his fathers account. And he says that 
hes suffering financial  difficulties and that Startlines refusal to reimburse him for the money 
that hed paid to the other garage meant that he couldnt afford  to run the car which led to 
him missing out on work opportunities.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring  that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr H was nearly 
seven years old and had been driven  for more than 62,000 miles. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
Mr H says that there were  issues with the car cutting out within a few months of it being  
supplied to him. But the only evidence  to support what he says is that the dealer  replaced 
the cars  battery in May 2016. And it says that no further issues  have been reported to it 
since then. Startline has asked Mr H to provide  it with evidence  to show  that the car was 
faulty when it was supplied to him  but he hasnt done so.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was 
supplied to Mr H in September 2015.  And when he did complain to the dealer about an issue  
with the car, it replaced the cars  battery - and Mr H hasnt reported  any further issues  about  
the quality of the car to the dealer or Startline.
Ref: DRN93078012Mr H took the car to another garage  for a service  and MOT in October 2016  for which  he 
paid £672.28.  He says that he was told that hed be able to reclaim repair costs under his 
warranty. But hes not provided any other  evidence  to show  that he was told that hed be 
reimbursed for those costs under his warranty.  And Im not persuaded that hed be able to 
reclaim the costs of a service or MOT under his warranty - I consider the work done by that 
garage to be part of the on-going running  costs of a car and not to be repairs that would 
normally be covered  under  a warranty. 
Mr H says that Startline has fraudulently taken payments from his fathers account. But that 
didnt form part of his original complaint to Startline - and then to this service. So Im unable  
to consider that issue as part of this complaint. If Mr H wants  to complain about that issue,  
he should complain  to Startline and then,  if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be 
able to complain  to this service.
Startline has provided evidence to show that it issued  a termination notice to Mr H in June 
2017 and that it recovered  the car in April 2018. Mr H then complained to Startline that the 
car wasnt fit for purpose because of the battery  issues. But Im not persuaded that theres  
enough evidence  to show that Startline  has acted incorrectly  in its dealings with Mr H. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to reimburse or refund any 
money to Mr H or to take any other action in response to his complaint. But if Mr H is 
experiencing financial difficulties, Startline is required to respond to those financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9307801