K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy twice, once in 1997 and again in 1998.  
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 1997 and a single  
premium PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The loans were in joint names whilst the cover 
appears to have been solely for Mr C. The policies were taken out when Mr and Mrs C 
applied for a loan to consolidate some other borrowings. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation for the 1997 sale as these events happened over 21 years ago 
and it cancelled over 20 years ago. Ive not seen anything that clearly  shows Nationwide  
didnt make Mr and Mrs C aware the PPI was optional. Considering how long ago the sale 
was in this case,  I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold  the complaint on this 
point for the sale in 1997. 
I have seen the loan agreement for the 1998 sale. The credit agreement  describes the PPI 
as, Optional Credit  Insurance. The agreement explains the cost and shows how that adds 
to the total monthly payment. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented  as optional 
and Mr and Mrs C chose to take it and thats  how it came to be applied  to their loan account.  
But I understand why they might not remember this now, many years  later.  
So having  considered all the submissions  I have received in this case, I think its more  likely  
that Nationwide wouldve  made Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional in both sales 
and that they chose  to take it, even  though  they may not remember that now, many  years 
later. 
Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation and Mr and Mrs C 
agreed. So, Nationwide had to give Mr and Mrs C clear enough  information  about the 
policies so they could decide if they wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would  have stopped them from buying 
them. I explain why I say that below. 
 
Ref: DRN93571452Mr C was eligible for the policies. And there  are things that sometimes arent  covered  by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr C wouldnt have been affected by those. For instance Mr C 
told us he was employed and had no pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think that Mr and Mrs C had, most likely,  a need for the cover.  I say this because whilst  
Mr Cs initial  sick pay was good,  it dropped significantly after six months. So whilst it may 
have been helpful for a while Mr C told us he had no other means  he could have relied  on in 
that event, or if he lost his job. But these policies could have paid out for at least up to a year 
and would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr C would have received. And it would 
have also provided  him with help in the event that he lost his job. So, having considered this, 
on balance, I think that Mr and Mrs C would  have found the policies useful.
The policies appear to have been flexible in that the 1997 policy was a regular premium  
policy that could  be cancelled at any time, and Mr and Mrs C may have got back  a pro rata 
refund of the 1998 PPI premium if they cancelled the policy early. So I dont think  this meant 
the policies werent  right for them. 
I do not know how clearly the cost was explained to Mr and Mrs C in 1997, but considering  
what we know about the cost of the cover  in relation to the benefit it could have provided Im 
not persuaded that better information would have  put Mr and Mrs C off taking the policy. 
In 1998, the cost of the policy,  the interest it would  have  attracted and the monthly cost of 
the policy were all included on the credit agreement  that Mr and Mrs C signed. So whilst I 
could understand  it if Mr and Mrs C thought now that the policy  was expensive,  I think  the 
costs were set out clearly  on the agreement and I havent seen anything to make me think 
the policy was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs C or that they had a need  to keep costs down. 
And given  how long the 1998 policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr and Mrs C 
made a successful claim, they could have  got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. So I 
dont think that in this case  the cost made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C.
I realise Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of anything  Nationwide may 
have done wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.  
Ref: DRN93571453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357145