K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) mishandled and caused delays 
when dealing with a claim she and the late Mr M made under their travel  insurance policy.
background
On the day that Mr and Mrs M were  due to return to the UK from their foreign holiday Mr M 
was taken ill and admitted  to hospital. Mrs M contacted ERV for assistance.  The severity  of 
Mr Ms illness meant that he needed  to be repatriated to the UK, which ERV agreed to cover.  
Due to the nature of Mr Ms illness he was in a highly  agitated  state, because of this when 
the treating doctor declared  him fit to fly, he did so with the condition that he should  be 
accompanied by his family to give him a reassuring environment. He also said that a medical 
expert was not necessary. ERV disagreed  it felt a medical escort was needed and made the 
necessary arrangements  for Mr Ms repatriation.
ERV arranged the following:
A medical escort to fly out to meet Mr and Mrs M 
A non-direct flight home for Mr M and one companion
Mrs M was concerned that having  a stop mid-way through the flight  home may agitate  Mr M 
more and asked  if a direct flight could be booked. ERV said they were free to arrange  a 
direct flight  themselves and it would  cover the cost up to the cost of the flight it had sourced, 
but that they had to decide  on that within the hour.  Mrs M agreed  to the non-direct flight.
The medical escort arrived  the day before Mr M was due to be repatriated. Although  it had 
previously been  arranged that he would  go to the hotel and meet with Mr and Mrs M, due to 
issues with his taxi he didnt do this. Instead he went the following morning just before they 
were all due to fly back to the UK. After this meeting  the medical escort, had concerns about  
Mr Ms condition  and abandoned the repatriation as he said he wasnt comfortable 
accompanying him in his agitated state.
The following  day ERV agreed  to make a new repatriation plan. The new plan was 
discussed with Mr Ms son. The repatriation was to take place eleven days from then, ERV 
arranged for two medical escorts to accompany Mr M on the flight home, one of those being 
its medical director. 
Mr Ms family asked ERV if it could arrange for a nurse to help with Mr Ms care in the 
meantime which ERV agreed to try to arrange.  During this same call Mr Ms son (S) asked 
about accommodation, ERV told him that there was a limit of £2000  for accommodation 
under the policy.  S said that the hotel cost around £1000 for three  nights and so the limit 
wouldnt last the entire  time and asked if this could be extended  as the failed repatriation  
hadnt been the fault of the family.  ERV said it would look into that. S also said there was a 
possibility that he could drive his father and mother to another city where  they had family 
who they could  stay with and would  have more support. ERV agreed  that this would be ok 
and so they went ahead and did this.
ERV were unable  to provide a nurse to help Mrs M it instead  offered to have Mr M 
readmitted into hospital and fund this to give Mrs M respite. But due to the distress that Mr M 
Ref: DRN91694552felt when he was in hospital previously  Mrs M didnt want to do that, so she continued to look 
after him by herself.
Mrs M contacted ERV while waiting for the second repatriation explaining the severity of the 
situation and explaining how she was now becoming worried for her own well-being and 
pleaded with it to get them home sooner.
The second  repatriation went ahead as planned  eleven days  after the first. ERV at Mrs Ms 
suggestion moved Mr and Mrs M to a hotel at the airport  the day before the flight home so as 
to limit the stress on Mr M on the day of the flight home. ERV covered  the cost of the 
transport and the hotel.
Once back in the UK Mr M was transferred by ambulance  to a hospital. He sadly  didnt 
recover from his illness and passed  away a month after his return home.
Mrs M was unhappy at the way she and Mr M had been treated throughout the repatriation 
process and that she had incurred costs due to the failed repatriation that ERV had refused 
to cover and so she made a complaint to it. ERV recognised there had been some failings 
and offered Mrs M £200 in compensation. 
Mrs M didnt  think  it had dealt with the complaint  fairly and so brought it to our service.  The 
investigator upheld  the complaint and in summary said:  
ERV shouldve acted  sooner to arrange  the second repatriation  and that not doing so 
caused a considerable  amount of distress to both Mr and Mrs M
ERV should  cover the costs of the expenses that Mrs M incurred as a result  of the 
failed repatriation
ERV should  increase  its compensation by £1,300 to a total of £1,500
ERV didnt agree with the investigator, it said the costs  werent  covered under the policy and 
so it couldnt cover them but offered  to increase  its total compensation amount  to £750. The 
investigator put this offer to Mrs M, she didnt accept the offer and so the matter  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Before I go into my findings, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs M on the loss of 
her husband.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I think the investigator has come to the right answer  here and for mainly  the same  reasons, 
Ill explain.
ERV approved the claim and arranged Mr Ms original repatriation  within  seven days, which  I 
think is acceptable. But during those seven  days communication wasnt  as good as Id 
Ref: DRN91694553expect, there  was a lack of empathy shown for the situation at what  wouldve been a really 
distressing time. An example of this is when Mrs M was clearly  worried about the impact  of a 
non-direct flight on her husbands  condition and ERVs own claim notes  say:
explained is either our option or they can do own arrangements. She said it is not 
fair to have 1h to decide, that the flight to  is a risk for the patient and willing to do 
whatever it takes  to get on the diect flight.  Explained this is not a negotiation  and will 
cal her back [sic]
I wouldve  expected  ERV to be more understanding here and look to explain the options to 
Mrs M and why it felt a non-direct  flight was safe and the right thing to do. But by giving her 
an hour to make the decision  I can understand why she felt pressured  into accepting  ERVs 
option.
So, Mrs M found herself in a place where  she was already anxious  about the repatriation 
plan, and then this was magnified  by the actions of the first medical  escort and his eventual 
abandonment of the repatriation. Mrs M has told that when the escort  left them  to take his 
flight home, they felt abandoned and neglected  and I can understand why.
Things didnt really improve much from here as it took ERV another eleven  days  to arrange 
the second repatriation, which I think couldve been done much more  quickly, the claim 
notes show there are gaps where things couldve been done sooner.
Mrs M was under  considerable strain  trying to care for Mr M during this time, as was 
highlighted in her email to ERV explaining the severity of the situation. ERV did offer to have 
Mr M readmitted to hospital  and understandably Mrs M didnt want  to do this as she didnt 
want Mr M to be distressed further.  I can see that ERV looked into the possibility of providing 
a nurse  to go to help Mrs M but unfortunately was unable to provide  this.
As ERV couldnt provide support on the ground  I wouldve  expected it to at least arrange  a 
care call with Mrs M everyday to check in on her and Mr M and see if anything  had changed. 
Instead all updates seem to have been driven  by Mrs M making contact first.
Overall, I think the stress and upset caused by ERVs  handling  of the claim throughout has 
been poor and not up to the standard I would expect it to provide in given the circumstances. 
I think its actions added  to what was an already very difficult time and made it more stressful 
than it needed  to be. Because of this I think a substantial award of compensation is 
warranted and agree that the overall  figure recommended by the in investigator of £1,500  is 
fair and reflective  of the considerable upset caused.
Turning to the expenses Mr and Mrs M incurred,  which ERV has declined to cover  under the 
policy, these were  for toll charges when moving Mr M from one city to another and for dog 
care charges  for the extended time Mr and Mrs M were  away  between the failed repatriation  
and the eventual successful one.
ERV has declined to cover these costs  as it says they arent  covered under  the policy, but I 
think its missing  the point here. But for the mistakes it made these costs would never have  
been incurred  as Mr and Mrs M wouldve been back home. Based on this ERV should  cover 
these costs, subject  to Mrs M providing invoices or receipts, outside of the policy as they are 
a direct result of its errors.
Ref: DRN91694554my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I uphold Mrs M and the late Mr Ms 
complaint about  ERGO Reiseversicherung AG. To put things  right I require it to:
Pay Mrs M a total of £1,500 for the trouble and upset it caused (this is inclusive of the 
£200 it has already  awarded)
Reimburse Mrs M for the toll charges she incurred upon supply of receipts  and add 
8% interest from the time Mrs M paid these
Reimburse Mrs M for the extra dog sitting fees she incurred upon  supply of receipts 
and add 8% simple interest from the time Mrs M paid these
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to take off tax from this interest. ERGO Reiseversicherung  
AG must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if she asks for one
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9169455