K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in a meeting. 
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a cleaner  and had been working there for more than 
five years.  From what shes told us, she was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay and 
statutory redundancy pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying  her credit card 
should she be unable  to work.  Mrs B has given us dates for health issues she had after the 
sale but she has told us she didnt have any health issues at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Bs credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 76p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium did attract interest and Halifax says the premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim. The life cover would, subject to its 
terms, clear the card balance on death.
Halifax has sent us a screenshot to show that the credit card account was closed  on 
2 April 2008.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Bs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt have taken out 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs Bs representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs B about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and 
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN97247052Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself had concluded  on 2 April 2008.  That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
Ref: DRN97247053other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Mrs Bs credit  card application 
form had a box to mark  if PPI was wanted. Above the box, and a box for another  product, it 
said: If you would like to take advantage of these services please mark the relevant boxes.  
Mrs B signed the form to take the card, and I think it is apparent  that if PPI wasnt  wanted the 
PPI box should  be left unmarked.
Ref: DRN97247054Mrs B took out the PPI at a meeting. On Mrs Bs form the PPI box is marked.  Like other 
details of her application,  the mark is printed on the form and I think its likely it reflects  a 
discussion with Mrs B that took place before the form was printed for her to sign.
So although  Mrs B has said PPI was included as part of the package  and she wouldve 
turned it down if shed  been given the chance, taking everything into account I think its more  
likely Mrs B knew the policy was optional and agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Mrs B says Halifax  didnt provide advice during this sale. Halifax says it did  and if it did 
provide advice Halifax had to do more.  Taking  this into account, I think  its fair to proceed on 
the basis that Halifax gave advice. This means it had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs B. There is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Mrs Bs financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs B would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Halifax considered whether Mrs B had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Halifax  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Bs ability to continue to meet  
her credit  card repayments  would have been  put under strain if she was not working for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for any statutory sickness and redundancy 
benefits she would have been entitled to.
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mrs B says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs B. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Bs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  for 
her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
couldve affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover  
for mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN97247055-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Bs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs B was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs B would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs B would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was.
I am also satisfied Mrs B would have  realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs B 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs B might have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B, Im not persuaded Halifax 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs B. Im not persuaded  that Halifax  gave Mrs B all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Ref: DRN97247056Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs B, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs B says she would  not have  taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised her there was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness or unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs B ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Halifax didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs B 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Ref: DRN97247057Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to chronic  or continuing health issues  Mrs B had on 
the policy start date and health  issues she knew of or should reasonably  have known of 
on the policy start date and or health issues recurring within twelve  months of the start 
date if shed been advised or treated for them  in the twelve months before the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B wasnt  
a permanent employee.
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs B turned 65 or, if earlier,  retired  or 
started receiving her state  pension.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs B didnt  have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think  she still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  To claim for disability, Mrs B needed to be prevented by 
accident or sickness from doing her normal work.  I dont think this is likely to be different to 
what she would have  expected to make  a claim.
Mrs B has complained that she reached  60 while the policy was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point if she had retired or her state pension had started. 
But Mrs B wasnt  yet fifty when she took out the PPI, so I think its more likely  than not shed 
have thought shed still get some value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered her 
for a reasonable period of time before she retired,  started her state pension or turned 65.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and aside from statutory benefits  she didnt have any 
means of meeting her credit card repayments  if she was unable  to work due to accident,  
sickness or redundancy. And in those circumstances  I consider it more likely than not that 
she would  have taken  out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN97247058That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs B, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
Ref: DRN97247059my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9724705