K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited  (Elevate) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Elevate provided to Mr P between August 2016  
and December 2016. Mr Ps borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Instalments Date  Repaid Loan amountHighest  
Instalment
1 03/08/2016 6 26/08/2016 £750.00 242.59
2 26/08/2016 6 27/01/2017 £750.00 250.08
3 02/10/2016 6 29/11/2016 £50.00 £266.30
4 30/10/2016 6 29/11/2016 £50.00 £282.78
5 29/11/2016 6 16/12/2016 £200.00 £316.01
6 20/12/2016 6**Debt sold in 
05/2017£650.00 £466.67
* The highest instalment column includes payments for outstanding loans running with 
Elevate at the time.  
** Elevate has given  us evidence to show that loan 6 was sold off to a 3rd party.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint about  loans 1 - 4. Mr P appears  to have 
accepted this opinion, so I havent considered these loans in my decision. However, I have  
thought about these  loans  when looking at the overall picture of Mr Ps borrowing history.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and thought  these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Elevate disagreed and so, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Elevate needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Elevate should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN93270702the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Elevate was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Elevate told us it undertakes eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before 
deciding whether to provide lending. I can see it asked Mr P for details of his income and 
expenses as well as carrying out a credit search. But by loan 5 I think  Elevate should have 
completed a more thorough check of Mr Ps circumstances instead of relying  on the 
information Mr P had provided. I also think Elevate  ought to have realised from the way Mr P 
was borrowing that he was having  problems  managing his money.
Loan 5 was Mr Ps fifth loan in three months and Mr P had been  indebted  to Elevate for the 
entire time. Not only was loan 5 taken out on the very same  day that loans 3 and 4 were 
repaid, but it was for a greater amount and therefore extended Mr Ps indebtedness  further  
still. In addition, proportionate checks would have  shown Elevate that Mr P had at least two 
other short-term loans with other providers as well as his second Elevate  Loan still 
outstanding. So, it looks like Mr P was becoming reliant  of this type of credit  and would  be 
unlikely to sustainably  this or any further  loans.
Loan 6 was taken 4 days after loan 5 was repaid and was for three and a half times the 
amount of loan 5. In addition, loan 2 was still outstanding  so Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing yet further still. As well as this, proportionate checks would likely have shown 
Elevate that Mr P had two other short-term loans with other providers.
So, I think Elevate wouldve been  aware Mr P was not coping financially. In these 
circumstances, I think  there was a significant risk Mr P wouldve been unable to sustainably 
Ref: DRN93270703meet his monthly  repayments for this loan and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6 and Elevate should put things right as 
outlined below.
putting things right  what Elevate needs to do
If Elevate  has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Elevate is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A.Elevate should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr P towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  
anything Elevate has already refunded.
B.Elevate should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by Mr P 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Elevate should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on loan 5, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on loan 5. If this results in Mr P having made  overpayments  then Elevate should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Elevate should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Elevate should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. Elevate 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal  it has already written-off. 
E.Elevate should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ps credit  file in relation 
to loans 5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate to deduct tax from this interest. Elevate should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr P compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9327070