K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his car finance agreement  by 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc (SC).
background
Mr M says he acquired the car at the end of May 2018 and he was making the payments  of 
£609 per month.  He says he had some personal and financial difficulties around late June  
and into July 2018. He says as a result he didnt make  his payments in August and 
September. And he says SC wouldnt  discuss  a repayment plan with him when he explained 
he was in financial difficulties.  
Mr M also says he spoke  to SC about  his situation in October  2018 and explained he would 
be in a position to make the payments at the end of November. He says he was told if he 
didnt make his October payment his account would be passed  to the debt recovery team. 
But he says he wasnt told that if this happened  he wouldnt be able to sort out a repayment 
plan.
In addition, Mr M says he didnt receive  the text messages and voicemails  SC says it sent 
him. And he says SC told him hed have to pay the entire outstanding balance of over 
£28,000 under his finance agreement if he wanted  to keep the car.
SC says it sent Mr M a default  notice  on 24 September  2018 as hed fallen into arrears by 
two months. It says on 10 October he spoke to its arrears management department and was 
told if the default notice expired without the arrears being paid, his account would be passed 
to its debt recovery department for further  action.  It says its arrears management department  
phoned Mr M on 15 and again on 19 October, but there was no reply and it wasnt possible 
to leave a voicemail.  And it says it sent him post default notice text messages on every 
alternate day between 23 October  and 1 November  2018.
SC also says on 5 November, as it had still received no payment from Mr M and the default 
notice had expired,  it sent him a letter terminating his finance  agreement and on 
12 November it began  the process  of repossessing the car.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he didnt receive the voicemails  
or text messages SC claims to have sent him. He said when he spoke to SC in 
October 2018 and explained he wouldnt be able to make a payment until the end of 
November he wasnt told this wouldnt be acceptable. He said although he was told his 
account would soon be handed  over to another team he wasnt  told it was a termination  
team and that if he didnt contact SC by a certain point he would have his agreement 
terminated. And he said he was simply told his account was going  over to the collections 
team to discuss a repayment plan.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97348902Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
I see Mr M was struggling financially due to his business not doing  well when he began 
missing payments under his car finance  agreement. And I see he promised to make 
payments but was then unable to do so and he didnt keep SC updated about his situation.
By the time SC issued  a default notice  although  hed only missed two payments, Mr M was 
more than £1,200 in arrears so Im not surprised it took this step.  And by the time the default 
notice expired the October payment was due and Mr M hadnt made any payments to begin 
clearing the arrears, although  I see hed told SC he would do so. I also see SCs told us after 
the default notice expired its collections team made  several attempts to contact Mr M to 
discuss the arrears on his account,  although  I acknowledge Mr M says he didnt receive  
these communications.  
I also acknowledge Mr M says after he spoke  to SCs collections team  in October  2018  he 
hadnt understood his agreement would be terminated if he wasnt able to make a payment 
until the end of November. But I think the default  notice and related correspondence  SC sent 
him made the position clear.  And against this background  I think  its decision to terminate 
Mr Ms agreement  and to take steps  to repossess the car was reasonable.
So, whilst Ive sympathy for Mr M regarding the difficult financial situation he found himself 
in, I dont think SC did anything wrong  in issuing a default notice against  him or in 
terminating his car finance agreement, in the circumstances. And for these  reasons  I cant 
fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Ms complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Santander Consumer (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.   
                  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9734890