K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent her money that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
Miss R is represented by a claims management company.
background
Miss R took out three loans with Uncle Buck between May and July 2013. She borrowed £75 
for loan one, £200 for loan three and £100 for loan three.
Miss R says Uncle Buck was irresponsible to agree to lend to her as it wouldve seen a 
number of other loans  on her credit file. Miss R wants  Uncle  Buck to pay her compensation 
and refund the loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Rs complaint  be upheld in part. Initially,  the 
adjudicator didnt think that Uncle  Bucks  checks went far enough before agreeing  loans two 
and three.  He thought that with better  checks Uncle Buck wouldnt have agreed either of 
these two loans  if it had asked Miss R about her income and outgoings.
Uncle Buck  rejected the adjudicators recommendation and gave this service evidence that it 
asked about Miss Rs income  and outgoings  before agreeing each loan.
The adjudicator revised his recommendation to say that although  he now agreed that Uncle 
Bucks checks  went far enough,  based  on the information it had about Miss R, loan two 
wasnt affordable. The adjudicator asked  Uncle Buck to refund any interest and charges that 
Miss R had paid on loan two and remove any negative information about the loan from her 
credit file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  says that 
there is a difference between the affordability information that it holds for loan two and the 
expenditure information that we gave.  Uncle  Buck says that Miss R had over £190  of 
disposable income left after making the repayment on loan two.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Miss R could  repay any money that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way. Any checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the amount of the 
loan, the repayments and any borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle 
Buck had to carry out.
Uncle Buck  as given  us evidence to show that it asked  Miss R about  her income and 
outgoings each  time.  
Ref: DRN90408332loan one 
Miss R was due to repay about £100  to Uncle Buck. It was early  on in Miss Rs lending  
history and she declared a monthly income of £800  with outgoings of around £429. 
Based on the expenditure figures that Miss R gave; I cant  find that it was wrong  of Uncle  
Buck to agree loan one.
loan two 
Miss Rs second loan repayment  was more than three times the amount  of loan one. Uncle  
Buck has given us details  of Miss Rs expenditure. This includes key items such as rent, 
transport, credit cards, utilities,  food and council tax. There  are also expenses marked  
other. 
When I add up the above items, it looks as though Miss Rs monthly outgoings were around 
£485 leaving  her with a monthly disposable income  of £315. Although this might  have  been  
just enough to afford to repay  loan two, Miss R was only left with £45 after making the 
payment to Uncle Buck. If shed had had any unexpected expenses  even  relatively minor 
ones  Miss R wouldve  been left with no disposable  income at all. 
I dont think it was reasonable  of Uncle Buck to agree loan two based on the information  that 
it held.
loan three  
I think that Uncle Buck shouldve been carrying out similar checks before agreeing  loan three 
as it did for loan two. Uncle Buck has recorded Miss Rs expenditure before loan three to be 
about £338. 
The repayment on loan three was less than half that of loan two. It appeared that Miss R had 
more than £460 disposable  income. So I cant find that Uncle Buck  was wrong  to agree loan 
three based on the information it held.
As I think  that Miss R has lost out, Uncle Buck should pay her compensation. 
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loan two;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan two from Miss Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss R a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN90408333my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9040833