K820x#14complaint
Mr S says HFC Bank Limited (HFC), mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when he took out a new credit  card at some  point  in the 1990s. He says he wasnt  
given enough  information and that he didnt need this type of cover.  Hes sure he wasnt ever 
properly told the PPI was optional.
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr S disagreed  and it has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I can see Mr S isnt happy that our adjudicator didnt think  we should uphold  his complaint. 
However, these events are obviously from a long time ago and neither party has been able 
to supply details  about the actual sale event, although Mr S recalls it was probably all done 
through the post. 
I can see that Mr S sent us in some statements relating  to both his bank and credit card 
accounts, which have  been somewhat helpful.
Even though  we dont know much about  the actual sale Ive thought very carefully about 
what Mr S thinks happened.  Ive seen quite a few cases  that are similar to this and Ive 
therefore used  my extensive experience  of them - and PPI complaints in general - to think  
about what is most likely  to have taken  place. 
Nevertheless, its a fact that we simply dont have much hard evidence to go by because  
the sale is probably from well over 20 years ago and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. 
In the absence of Mr Ss original application  form, HFC sent us an example of the type of 
form it says was used at around that time. I accept that it isnt completely certain Mr S would 
have used this form, but I think  its more  likely  he did. Ive seen other HFC cases from this 
time period where such a form was in common use, so I see no reason why Mr S wouldnt  
have filled a similar one out too to get his new credit card account set up.
This application form had a section on it about PPI and had a box to tick if PPI was 
something that the applicant wanted.  Theres no dispute Mr S went  on to buy the PPI, so I 
think he ticked the box. The way the form was laid out would have shown Mr S that he had a 
choice and I think hed have been  able to see he didnt  need to buy PPI if he didnt want  to. 
So I think its more likely  he agreed  to the PPI.
Ref: DRN97873562I cant say if this was an advised sale although  my general experience  of postal applications 
is that they werent. Consumers would typically fill out the form in their own time without 
intervention from the business. But actually, I dont think this really matters in this case 
because the PPI was suitable for Mr S anyway.
This is because he appears  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we tend to see in some of these policies. Mr S told us about the job he had 
and said he didnt need the cover. He also said his parents would have helped him if he had 
ever got into financial  difficulties. Ive thought carefully about what  hes said and I understand 
all the points he is making. 
But Im afraid these points  dont  necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt  of use. The policy  would 
have reduced Mr Ss outstanding balance each month for up to 36 months  if hed made a 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness; and for 12 months  in the case  of unemployment. 
This would have been in addition to any other means he already had at the time. 
HFC also had a duty to provide clear  enough information to allow  Mr S to make  an informed 
decision about what he wanted to do. I cant say after such a long time that he was provided 
with all the information he should  have  been  and I can see ways  in which the form could 
have been better laid out. But even if I accept more could have been done to explain things, 
this still doesnt  change what I think.  Mr S himself showed us a statement showing  the PPI 
described as Payment Protection and it showed  how much it cost.  The cost of the policy  
seems to me to be broadly in line with many other similar products sold at the time.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but my final decision is that theres  not enough evidence to 
uphold his complaint. I think  its more likely  this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  and I dont require HFC Bank 
Limited to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9787356