K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC is engaged  in a practice of assigning  the wrong dates 
to his credit  card balances  when  it provided details of his credit card balances  to a credit  
reference agency.
background
Mr O says his credit  card balances dont match his credit file for May and June 2018. He 
says May is wrong by £595 and June  is wrong  by over £600.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Os complaint. It said Mr Os credit file reflects  his financial history 
and isnt designed to show up to date account information. It said it sends information 
relating to accounts to credit reference agencies (CRAs) once a month.  Information for one 
calendar month is sent the following calendar month. So Mays data will be sent in June.
Mr O remains  unhappy with Lloyds  response  so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Lloyds had made an error because  Mr Os credit  file is designed  
to show  his financial  history  and not his up to date account information and it can take up 
to eight weeks for the information to be sent to CRAs.
The adjudicator considered Mr Os credit  card statements for April,  May and June 2018 and 
his credit file showing  the balance  data for his Lloyds credit  card.  But he couldnt see that 
an error had been made.
Mr O isnt happy with the adjudicators view. He says his complaint  isnt about whether 
Lloyds provides inaccurate credit card balances to CRAs or the timescales  within which data 
is uploaded and sent to CRAs. Rather his complaint is that his credit file shows dates on 
which his credit card information was last updated but this doesnt correspond  to the 
balances shown on his credit card statements on those dates. Mr O has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im afraid I agree with the 
outcome reached  by our adjudicator and for broadly  the same  reasons.
I realise Mr O isnt happy about the way his balances are reported  on his credit file. But I 
must explain that the role of this service  is to resolve complaints by looking at what  we 
consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
However, we dont have  any regulatory  or disciplinary role over those businesses   thats the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant require Lloyds to change the way it 
provides account  balances  to credit reference  agencies  for example by requiring it to 
provide real time balances.
A credit file shows an individuals financial history  and doesnt show real time up to date 
account information. Lloyds has explained  that it sends information  to credit reference  
agencies on a regular  monthly basis. Information  for one calendar month is sent the 
following calendar month. So this means  Mays  data is quality checked and sent in June. 
Ref: DRN96956362And Lloyds  has told us that the last updated date will show  after the cross-checking period 
has finished. This is generally within 10 working days of the month  end.
This means  that the last updated date wont correspond to Mr Os actual balance on that 
day. Instead it refers  to the date when  Lloyds has done its quality checks  on the previous 
months balances. It also means  that the information recorded on Mr Os credit  file wont be 
up to date. And that information about  Mr Os credit  card balances shown on his credit  file for 
June will relate  to his financial position  in May.
Ive looked at Mr Os credit card statements for April, May and June 2018 and Ive looked  at 
the credit  reports sent by Mr O but I cant find that an error has been made. Our adjudicator 
has already explained that the balance information  given on Mr Os credit report  dated  
3 June 2018 corresponds to Mr Os credit  card balance for May 2018.
Mr O has also referred  us to his credit card statement for June 2018. He says this shows  his 
balance for the end of May 2018 was £3,500 but he says his credit report for the end of May 
2018 shows a balance of £4,095, a difference of £495.
As Ive explained above, the reason for this difference is because  the credit report for the 
end of May 2018  is based on information about his Lloyds credit  card for the previous month. 
Im satisfied that this records  Mr Os balance for the previous  month and this is consistent  
with the way Lloyds has told us that it provides information to credit  reference agencies.
It follows that Im of the opinion that Lloyds  has treated Mr O fairly  and I wont  be asking 
Lloyds to do anything  further.
And I can see that the credit report provided by Mr O and dated 22 June 2018 reflects 
information updated on 10 June 2018. And at this point  it updates  his balance to reflect his 
credit card balance reflected on his June statement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9695636