K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly  declined  a
claim she brought under her building warranty policy
background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 and set out the background of the case 
as:-
Mrs M tells us she contacted NHBC is January 2018 as she was concerned  at the poor
quality of the roughcast (sometimes referred to as render) on her property.
NHBC tell us it arranged  an inspection and produced a report  in March 2018 providing  a
copy to Mrs M. This report advised  that the claim had been rejected. There  was further
dialogue between  Mrs M and NHBC and a final response letter was issued on 5 June 2018.
In this letter NHBC confirmed to Mrs M that their claims investigator acknowledged  some
damage to the top coat of the render but as it was cosmetic damage and didnt affect  the
water tightness of the property there  wasnt a valid claim.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with NHBCs decision to decline the claim and provided photographic
evidence of the quality of the roughcast. And she obtained a report from a local firm who
specialised in roughcast work. This report said the roughcast was found to be defective.  It
went on to say Topcoat could be removed by slight pressure of hand due to either  poor
mix of materials  or applied in unsuitable  weather conditions. They  concluded that the render
will need  to be removed  and reapplied  with a suitable two coat render system.
NHBC issued  a further FRL in December 2018,  it agreed the top coat of the render was
crumbling but said the structural stability and weathertightness of the building  wasnt affected
and therefore  the damage  was cosmetic and excluded from the policy. As Mrs M had
advised them the condition of the rendering had worsened, it agreed to a further  inspection
of the property. This inspection took place  in late January 2019 and a further  report was
issued on 5 March  2019.
This report advised that the claim wasnt accepted. It said whilst there may be some
variance in the consistency of the render there was nothing to suggest  it will not continue to
perform. The report went  on to say, Although there is damage  to the home,  having
considered the current condition  of the render it is unlikely to impair the structural  stability or
weather tightness  of the Home and as such it is not deemed  to be a valid claim under the
policy.
A further  final response letter  was issued dated  22 March  2019. In it NHBC advised itd given
further consideration to the claim and apologised for the delays.  It went  on to say it was
satisfied it had fairly assessed the claim and were  unable  to assist at this time.
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs M provided  videos of the stone chippings coming loose when  she brushed her hand
over the roughcast. And provided copies of NHBC reports from neighbours whod also
complained about the quality of their roughcast, and whose claims had been  accepted.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Ms complaint. She felt thered  been  a significant loss of
chippings from the roughcast  and didnt consider this to be normal. She was also concerned
with the ease the chippings fell away when brushed with a hand. She didnt think it was fair
Ref: DRN95343712for NHBC  to decline the claim  on the grounds  that the issues  with the roughcast  hadnt  yet
become severe  enough to compromise  the water  integrity of the property.
NHBC disagreed with the investigators view. It felt the issues with the neighbouring
properties were not relevant as those  properties had significantly worse issues than Mrs Ms
home. It maintained that the issues  with Mrs Ms roughcast is purely  cosmetic,  pointing out
that the property  is now 10 years  old and there  is no water  ingress  apparent. NHBC have
asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached a different
outcome to that of our investigator.
I have to decide the case taking account of the policy terms and conditions  and whether
NHBC has acted  fairly when applying the terms and conditions. The claim was considered
under section 3 of the Buildmark policy. And this sets out that NHBC will pay:-
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical Damage
caused by a Defect in any of the following  parts of the house,  bungalow,  maisonette  or flat
and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common Parts
The policy then lists the different parts of the building covered and this includes external
render.
The policy,  in common with most insurance policies  has exclusions, and section 3 of the
Buildmark policy sets out what NHBC will not pay. The relevant section being:-
cosmetic damage such as minor cracking,  spalling or mortar erosion to brickwork, which
does not impair the structural stability or weather  tightness of the Home  or which  only affects
decorations.
Ive considered the report Mrs M provided from the roughcast specialist, and the
photographs and videos  shes  submitted. Im satisfied that there is damage to the render but
have to consider  if the extent of the damage  is such that the exclusion applies.
Ive also considered the 2 NHBC reports on Mrs Ms property, these reports  were  based on
visual inspections and tap testing to see if the render  has debonded.  The reports  suggest
there has been some minor cracking,  but the render hasnt debonded. The most recent
report says:-
Whilst there may be some variance in the consistency of the render there is nothing to
suggest that it will not continue to perform  when subjected to normal  weathering.
Although there is damage to the home,  having  considered the current  condition  of the render
it is unlikely to impair the structural  stability or weather  tightness  of the Home and as such it
is not deemed to be a valid claim under  the policy.
The first report  says the homeowner has not experienced any water ingress internally to the
property resultant from the loss of render chips and the home remains  weathertight. And
suggests the render should be redecorated  as part of the owners normal maintenance. Im
satisfied from these  reports that the water  tightness of the building  hasnt been
compromised.
I considered the NHBC report Mrs M provided  on a nearby  property but given less weight to
Ref: DRN95343713this. Each  case is different and considered at on its own merits. There  are some  similarities
to the description  of the damage, and there are also some differences. Im mindful that the
same claims investigator that visited  Mrs Ms home  also produced the report on the nearby
property. So, Im satisfied  there  was a consistent approach  taken.
This is a finely balanced case  and Im more persuaded that the damage,  whilst visible,  hasnt
compromised the water  tightness of the building.  And, in the circumstances  of this case can
be fairly described as cosmetic as it doesnt  impact  the buildings structural stability or water
tightness.
The policy isnt designed to cover every eventuality  and Im satisfied that NHBC have
correctly applied the exclusion.
I invited both parties to let me have their further  comments.
replies to the provisional findings
Neither party had any further comments for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and without further 
information to consider,  I see no reason  to reach  a different outcome to that in provisional 
decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9534371