K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Yorkshire Building  Society (T/A: Chelsea Building Society)  (YBS) mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the banks branches when Ms J was applying for a mortgage. The policy  provided  
Ms J with cover for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.  
 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Ms J has sent a comprehensive response  to our adjudicators opinion letter. Im not going  to 
comment on all the points  shes raised, but I can assure Ms J Ive thought about everything 
shes told us. Ive also thought about the fact that Ms J seems to have been  given an 
incorrect initial response from YBS, which has confused  things. Thats unfortunate, but it 
doesnt affect my decision.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms J suggests she wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI as it was added without 
her knowledge.  YBS says the PPI was part and parcel of the particular mortgage product Ms 
J was getting. So, in effect,  if Ms J wanted  this mortgage  which came with an offer of 5% 
cashback  she had to buy the PPI too. YBS says that was clear as it sent Ms J a mortgage  
offer that included,  as a condition, that she must  return  a completed application for the PPI. I 
think Ms J must have known she was buying  the PPI, because she completed  and returned 
the application form.
There was a follow up mortgage offer which didnt mention the PPI application  but YBS 
says thats because it had by then got the form. That sounds reasonable to me.
Theres nothing automatically wrong in a lender attaching certain conditions  like PPI  to a 
mortgage offer. Im satisfied it would then be for Ms J to decide if she wanted that particular 
mortgage.
YBS did however, have to give Ms J enough  information for her to decide if the PPI was 
suitable for her, and by this I mean  that she should be able to claim on the policy  if she 
needed to. From what Ive seen  Ms J was eligible for the policy  given her circumstances and 
Ref: DRN95720932the PPI terms and conditions. It only covered Ms J if she became unemployed (also  
described as redundancy)  and I think that was useful cover for her. I accept Ms J says she 
had similar cover already  but as I said above,  Im satisfied this PPI was a condition  of her 
mortgage, so that doesnt affect  my decision.
The PPI was free for the first ten months  so until late 1996 or early  1997. I dont know  
exactly when YBS told Ms J what it would  cost going  forwards, but I think  she must have 
known it would cost something  if only because  it was free initially. I appreciate Ms Js 
comment about YBS not being  able to show us the actual cost of the PPI in 1997  (it can only 
show us its cost from 1998 on). But I dont think its unreasonable  for YBS not to have 
records going back more  than 20 years, and I dont think not knowing this figure exactly 
affects my decision. Thats because, on balance, its very unlikely to be a figure much 
different from the £7 or so charged in 1998.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient  to meet  
her monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take out a mortgage  that meant she also had to have PPI. 
Ms J has mentioned that she isnt happy about the way YBS treated her some years  later 
when she needed  financial help. This decision is only about how the PPI was sold in 1996: if 
Ms J wants  to complain about how she was treated  when she asked for help, then she might 
be able to bring a separate  complaint about  that. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9572093