K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that ASTUS Financial  Planning Ltd failed to treat her fairly. Specifically she 
complains that her ASTUS advisor was rude and unprofessional during a telephone call. She 
complains that she was charged  advice fees that were not explained and were 
unrepresentative of the service  shed received. And she complains that ASTUS cancelled its 
client agreement with her without explanation and leaving her without a financial advisor.
background
Mrs A received pension  benefits from her ex-husband following their divorce. As Mrs A 
wasnt an active member of the ceding  scheme she was required to transfer those benefits 
to a new provider.  As a result Mrs A took advice from ASTUS  and transferred her benefits 
into its management. Mrs As pension savings were  invested via a platform  that I will call N 
and based on a model portfolio provided by an investment manager I will call T.
Mrs A said that she isnt complaining about the investment advice that she received. 
However more recently she has questioned whether ASTUS placed  her into the correct  level 
of servicing and so whether the fees she has been charged to date are fair.
When Mrs A first expressed  her dissatisfaction to ASTUS about the fees that she was being 
charged, it refunded the fees it had been  paid in August and November 2018. And ASTUS 
says that it hasnt collected  any other fees since it ended its agreement  with Mrs A. But 
Mrs A didnt think the refund of the fees alone was sufficient to resolve  her complaint as she 
would incur additional charges when appointing a new advisor. So she brought  her 
complaint to this service.  
Mrs As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  Ultimately  he thought that 
the actions ASTUS had taken  in refunding the final two advice fees had been reasonable. 
And he didnt think ASTUS had done anything wrong in ending its agreement with Mrs A. So 
he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs A didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Ref: DRN98845412Mrs A has said that she isnt complaining about  the investment advice that she received. 
I can see that she needed to move  the pension funds she had been given as part of her 
divorce settlement  away from the ceding  scheme. So it wasnt unreasonable for ASTUS to 
recommend the solution that Mrs A ultimately  took. ASTUS discussed  and documented 
Mrs A's investment objectives,  and her attitude to risk. And it seems to me that the 
investments it recommended were in accordance with those.
I have looked  carefully  at the client agreement that Mrs A signed  when she agreed for 
ASTUS to provide  her with on-going advice about  her pension investments. At that time 
Mrs A was offered different levels of servicing by ASTUS. Transactional service wouldnt 
see any ongoing monitoring of the investments being undertaken, and new transactions 
would incur and advisor  charge or commission payment. Foundation  service  would 
normally be recommended for assets  of less than £50,000 and provided some limited  
ongoing monitoring of investments. The Portfolio service, that was taken by Mrs A, would 
be normally recommended for assets  of more than £50,000. This allowed for an individual  
investment portfolio to be designed and be regularly monitored and reviewed.
The Portfolio service  was described as offering biannual  portfolio  reviews and rebalancing. 
ASTUS has suggested  that should  mean  that Mrs A would meet  with it every two years. But 
here Id agree with Mrs A that meeting every two years would be described as biennial 
rather than biannual. But I dont  think  the service description requires ASTUS to actually 
meet with Mrs A, and given the way her investments were based  upon a portfolio designed 
and managed by T, I dont think meetings at that frequency  would be a necessity. So I dont 
think ASTUS not meeting  with Mrs A for a period of around 17 months  before her agreement 
was ended suggests that it failed  to provide her with the required level of service.  I havent 
seen anything to suggest ASTUS was unresponsive to Mrs As requirements or that it failed 
to ensure her investments  reflected both her circumstances and any changes  in the market 
as a whole. So I dont think the fees ASTUS charged for that time should be refunded.
The service  agreement provided the opportunity for either ASTUS or Mrs A to end that 
agreement at any time. And I havent  seen anything  in the agreement that would require 
ASTUS (or Mrs A) to provide a reason or explanation for such a decision.  It is for ASTUS to 
decide who it wishes to provide services  to  that isnt something that this service  should 
interfere with. So I dont  think it was unreasonable for ASTUS  to end its agreement with 
Mrs A in November 2018.
Mrs A has said that ASTUS ending its agreement  with her has adversely affected the value 
of her investments. I can see that when ASTUS told N that it no longer  advised Mrs A, the 
model portfolio  provided by T was removed from her investments. But that doesnt mean 
Mrs As investments were  changed at that time.  It simply means that they wouldnt benefit  
from any future changes to the portfolio  that T implemented. And T has confirmed that it 
didnt make any changes  to its model portfolio  in the three months following November 2018. 
So the changes  Mrs A saw in the value of her pension investment were as the result  of 
normal market fluctuations and not as a result  of the termination  of her agreement  by 
ASTUS.
ASTUS has told us that it doesnt  record  its telephone calls.  My understanding is that it isnt 
required to do so by its regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. So I have no way of 
knowing what was said in the call that Mrs A has complained  about  that took place shortly 
after ASTUS  decided  to end its agreement with her. So I cannot  reach  any reasonable 
conclusion that ASTUS treated Mrs A inappropriately at that time.
Ref: DRN98845413It does seem that, in the summer of 2018, ASTUS  felt it important  to meet  with Mrs A and 
discuss her investments. And for the entirely understandable reasons that Mrs A has 
explained to this Service those meetings didnt take place.  ASTUS wasnt aware of the more  
pressing matters that Mrs A needed to deal with at that time so it, perhaps mistakenly, 
decided that Mrs A was unhappy with the service it was providing and didnt want to continue 
with her arrangement. So on that basis I think it was reasonable that it refunded the advice  
fees that it had received around  that time.
In summary  I dont think that ASTUS has acted unreasonably in the service it has provided  
to Mrs A, or in its decision to end its agreement with her. I understand that this decision will 
come as a disappointment  to Mrs A, but Id encourage  her, if she hasnt already, to seek 
alternative advice  regarding the future management of her pension  investments from 
another firm.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
ASTUS Financial Planning Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884541