K821x#15complaint 
Mr T complains that a fault with the Sat Nav system in the new car hed acquired under a 
hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
wasnt fixed despite him raising it on a number of occasions.
background
In November  2017 Mr T acquired a new car via a hire purchase agreement.  Shortly  
before he was about to drive  away the salesman told him that the Sat Nav, which  was a 
standard feature of the car, wasnt working  due to a lack of a working  SD card.  Mr T 
agreed to take the car and to wait to hear about  the replacement card that needed to be 
ordered.
Mr T says he kept in contact with the salesman via texts but then the salesman stopped 
replying to his messages about  when the new SD card would be fitted. Mr T then found  
out that the salesman had left the dealership.
Mr T also says he tried to get the issue with his Sat Nav resolved but that the dealership 
wasnt helpful despite numerous  attempts  by him to get the matter dealt with. So he 
decided to withhold  the direct debit payments set up for the hire purchase agreement. He 
says he told the dealership he would  take this action  as he felt he had no other  option.
After withholding two months payments  Mr T received an arrears notice from VWFS. He 
complained to VWFS about the situation with the non-working Sat Nav. VWFS said that was 
for the dealership to fix. It also said that it would  be marking Mr Ts credit  file with 
information about his non-payment  of the credit agreement.
Mr T was unhappy at VWFSs response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ts complaint should  be upheld.  She said the 
evidence was that the car supplied to Mr T hadnt  been as described as the Sat Nav 
hadnt worked from the time hed received it. And although she could see the dealership  
had ordered a new SD card, there was no evidence it had ever been fitted. Therefore, Mr T 
hadnt been able to enjoy the car as hed planned  due to this missing facility.
Our investigator did also say that Mr T shouldnt have stopped his contractual  payments, as 
he had an obligation  under the agreement to pay for the car. However she thought  it would 
be fair for VWFS  to fit/repair the Sat Nav; to arrange a plan for Mr T to clear the outstanding 
monthly payments;  to remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Ts credit file under 
this agreement; and to pay him back 10% of the monthly premiums for the time he had no 
Sat Nav as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T agreed with our investigators view, though he said he thought  the compensation 
should be greater  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.  But VWFS has disagreed. It 
says Mr T signed a checklist  form to say he was happy with the car before he drove it 
away. It also says that if the car wasnt of satisfactory condition  at the point of sale then the 
retailer has a chance to repair the fault, which the dealership did by ordering the missing  
SD card. VWFS also queried  why Mr T had left it so long before contacting  it and said it 
didnt think hed raised the problem  with the dealership.
Ref: DRN99879502It says the dealership has since agreed  to replace the missing  part and this was a fair 
outcome. VWFS  says it doesnt think that compensation  is proportionate in the 
circumstances. And that it isnt appropriate to remove the adverse  information its placed on 
Mr Ts credit file as this is an accurate record of his non-payment of his agreement.
As there  was no agreement from the parties, the complaints been  passed to me for a 
decision. I issued  a provision decision along  the following lines.
VWFS said that Mr T had signed the Handover Checklist when hed collected the car to 
show that he was happy with the condition of the vehicle. But Mr T said hed already signed  
this before the salesman  told him about a problem with the Sat Nav. And looking at this 
checklist there wasnt a specific box about  being  shown  that the Sat Nav worked, only a 
generic one about being shown the controls. So I didnt think  this checklist  showed that 
when Mr T drove away with the car the Sat Nav was operational, and the car was free from 
that fault.
Mr T had also provided us with copies of texts  hed exchanged with the salesman in the 
two weeks following after hed taken the car. In these Mr T asked about the Sat Nav 
updates and when they would be available. Mr T has also sent us a photograph  of the 
cars console, which clearly showed  the car had no SD card and so had no working Sat 
Nav.
VWFS said that a new SD card was ordered in December 2017,  a month after Mr T had 
taken the car. Id seen  an invoice which showed the order was made and the dealership  had 
paid for the replacement. But I had no evidence this part was ever received and fitted in Mr 
Ts car.   Mr T was very clear that despite his efforts to have  the Sat Nav fixed  the dealership  
hadnt assisted  him.
VWFS said that Mr T shouldve  raised his problem with the Sat Nav with it before March 
2018. But I didnt think it was unreasonable for him to try and resolve this situation first with 
the dealership.  Mr T said that the Sat Nav was an important facility for him, so I didnt think  
hed just ignored it.
I accepted Mr T had made contact with the dealership on several occasions. Id noted  that 
the SD card was ordered  one month after Mr T had acquired the car, and not by the 
salesman who Mr T had been texting. So I thought this showed  that the dealership  was 
aware of the issue  with the Sat Nav, despite  that salesman leaving its employment. Mr T 
had then contacted VWFS in March 2018 once it had written to him about the missed 
payments under the agreement.
Mr T said that due to the lack of assistance  hed felt hed no choice but to stop making  the 
payments under the credit agreement for the car. I appreciate Mr T had a legal  obligation to 
make these payments,  but his frustration at the position hed found  himself in came  through 
in his complaint.  Hed attempted to get the issue rectified without any progress seemingly 
being made. And he was now aware of the effect  not paying a credit agreement  could  have 
on his credit file.
Nonetheless, he should still have fulfilled his legal obligations and made his payments. 
Because he didnt,  this was recorded on his credit  file as missed payments. And as this 
was a true and accurate  reflection of how hed managed his account, I couldnt ask that 
this be changed.  Credit files are there  to show prospective lenders how a consumer 
Ref: DRN99879503manages their credit  accounts, and in this case VWFS was required to report accurate 
information.
I could understand that Mr T wouldnt  feel that this was fair, because  hed already tried to 
sort things out with the dealership before taking this step. And I could  understand  how 
powerless he must have felt when he wasnt  getting anywhere. But that didnt make not 
paying his agreement the correct, or reasonable,  thing to do. Especially when hed kept, and 
continued to use, the car at the same time.
Noting that it was poor service, and lack of progress, that had led Mr T to taking this 
extreme step, rather than clearing the adverse  information from his credit file, I thought 
some compensation would be fair. I thought £150 as compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr T would be fair and reasonable.
In terms of the credit  file itself, Mr T could add a notice of correction to his car agreement in 
his record, if he wished  to explain why his payments were  missed. This information would 
then be available  for prospective credit providers  to see.
Looking at the evidence,  I didnt think the car was as described or of satisfactory quality 
when Mr T received  it, as the Sat Nav, which was a standard feature, didnt  work.  Its a 
requirement under the Consumers Rights Act 2015 that goods  supplied to a consumer meet  
those definitions, and here this car didnt. It was a new car and it was reasonable for Mr T to 
have expected it to have been fault free. And when goods are bought via a credit 
agreement then the finance  provider,  in this case VWFS is treated as the supplier. So 
VWFS was responsible for rectifying  the fault.
Id seen that the repair appeared to be relatively simple  matter of replacing  the missing  SD
card. So I thought it was reasonable for this repair to now be carried out at no cost to Mr T.
Mr T has had use of the car since hed acquired  it in November 2017 and so I would expect
him to pay any missing  payments under the agreement to VWFS. VWFS will need to agree 
a suitable payment plan for Mr T to bring  his account  up to date.
Mr T has now had the car for several months  without a working  Sat Nav system and I 
agreed with our investigator that this would have  caused him distress and inconvenience.  I 
thought it was fair for VWFS to pay Mr T compensation for this. But looking at the impact  
this would have  had on his use of the car, I disagreed that a larger  percentage of the 
premiums than 10% should be reimbursed.  I appreciated Mr T had found  using a mobile 
phone as a replacement system unsuitable  and hed  cancelled  trips due to the lack of this 
facility but he had still had use of the car. I didnt think  the lack of Sat Nav would have 
affected the majority  of his journeys  in it.
So I thought  that compensation equal to 10% of his monthly premiums  from the date 
he acquired the car until the date the Sat Nav is fixed was fair and reasonable.
VWFS says that it thought the Sat Nav was repaired in December 2017 when a new 
SD card was ordered by the dealership. But otherwise it agrees  with my provisional 
decision.
Mr T says the cars Sat Nav is still not yet repaired  and he had been left with no 
choice but to take the action that he had as the dealership wouldnt assist  him. He is 
very concerned about the impact on his credit file if this shows hed defaulted on a 
Ref: DRN99879504credit agreement. He says his complaint wasnt about compensation but about 
getting the car to have a working Sat Nav which is what hed originally ordered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the situation with Mr Ts Sat Nav has taken a frustratingly long time to resolve. 
And Im unclear why it wasnt sorted out when the new SD card was ordered by the 
dealership in December 2017. Mr T is now back in touch with the dealership who are in the 
process of now sorting this out. 
I appreciate Mr T felt desperate about the situation with the Sat Nav but I cant  agree  that his 
decision to stop paying his credit  agreement was reasonable. Mr T had entered into a credit 
agreement and so was under a legal obligation to make the monthly  payments. The lack of 
progress in fixing the Sat Nav doesnt  free Mr T from this obligation. Hes also been able to 
use the car since November 2017. 
As explained a credit  file is a record of how an individual manages their credit  accounts and 
VWFS is under  an obligation to ensure accurate information is recorded on Mr Ts. So 
however justified Mr T felt he was in stopping the payments I cant  request VWFS to remove 
information that is truthful. Mr T is, however, able to add a notice of correction to this account 
explaining why a default arose.
So although  this will be a disappointment  to Mr T I havent been persuaded to change  my 
mind about  VWFS removing the adverse information  about  the credit  agreement from his 
credit file. 
VWFS has asked  that the 10% reduction  from each of the monthly  payments taken from the 
date Mr T acquired the car until the date the Sat Nav is fixed  should be deducted  from the 
outstanding arrears that have accrued under  the agreement. Mr T is agreeable to this course  
of action and I think  thats a sensible  solution in these circumstances. 
I think the appropriate outcome for Mr Ts complaint  is for VWFS to do the following:
Pay Mr T £150 compensation for its poor service and lack of progress about his 
complaint that resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mr T.
Repair the Sat Nav system at no cost to Mr T.
Reduce the monthly payments due under  the agreement by 10% from the date Mr T 
acquired the car until the date the cars Sat Nav is fixed. This amount is then to be 
deducted from the outstanding arrears that have accrued.
Set a suitable  payment plan for the arrears that have accrued under the agreement in 
order for Mr T to bring his account up to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im asking  Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited to do 
the following: 
Ref: DRN99879505Pay Mr T £150 compensation for its poor service and lack of progress about his 
complaint that resulted in distress and inconvenience for Mr T.
Repair the Sat Nav system at no cost to Mr T.
Reduce the monthly payments due under  the agreement by 10% from the date Mr T 
acquired the car until the date the cars Sat Nav is fixed. This amount is then to be 
deducted from the outstanding arrears that have accrued.
Set a suitable  payment plan for the arrears that have accrued under the agreement in 
order for Mr T to bring his account up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  19 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9987950