K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Mr Ks 
recollection is that he applied for the credit  card and PPI policy  over the phone.
At the time,  Mr K was employed as an account  manager at a marketing company. He has 
told us he wasnt entitled to any employee  sick pay and didnt have  any other means   such  
as savings or an insurance policy  for repaying  his credit card should he be unable to work.  
Mr K has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ks credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. The policy would have also paid off Mr Ks account balance  in the event of his death 
up to a maximum of £10,000.
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2003.
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ks representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr K and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN99731962Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN99731963these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr K sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr K know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive said above,  Mr Ks recollection  is that he applied for the credit card and PPI by 
phone. But Nationwide has told us it was a postal application and its given us a copy of the 
credit card application. That shows the form has been completed by hand and is stamped 
Ref: DRN99731964returned by Nationwide along  with a date-stamp.  So, I think  it was most likely a postal 
application where Mr K had to complete the credit  card application and return it to 
Nationwide for processing.
The copy  of Mr Ks credit card application  form included a separate  section for PPI. This 
section included a tick-box option  to say whether Mr K wanted the policy.  I see that he has 
ticked the box to confirm he wanted  to take the policy. And as I think this was most likely a 
postal application,  Mr K was free to make  this decision in his own time and without any 
influence from a Nationwide representative. Mr K completed, signed  and returned  the 
application form confirming he agreed  with the information contained within  it. 
Mr K has said that the policy was included as party of the credit card package, but taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr K knew  the policy  was optional and he 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr K hasnt given us any 
recollection whether  advice was given. And bearing  in mind I think  this application was most 
likely made by post, and in the absence of anything contrary  from Mr K, I think it unlikely that 
Nationwide provided  advice. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr K. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr K to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Mr Ks application  form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, 
including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mr Ks. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr K at the time,  I dont  think  Nationwide  gave    
Mr K the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against death, unemployment, accident and sickness. It also informed Mr K 
that the policy cost 60p per £100 of his outstanding balancing.  
The information provided would have given Mr K a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Nationwides  responsibility to draw to Mr Ks attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did enough  to do this. For example,  I dont  think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mr K, including the need to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Nationwide 
Ref: DRN99731965adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent did Mr K 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr K. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr K 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr K 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr K says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr K had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr K chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
Ref: DRN99731966this decision based  on incomplete information.  So, what  Mr K thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr K ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  So, 
while Mr K didnt know some things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim 
was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he based 
his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims arising directly from any existing defect or chronic or 
recurring disease, or other condition which Mr K was aware of at the start date of the 
policy or which he had suffered  from in the 12 months immediately before the start 
date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr K 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr K be unable  to 
do his normal occupation or any other occupation for which  Mr K was already able to 
do by knowledge  or training. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr K pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr K didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr K had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his normal 
occupation or any other occupation for which he was already able to do by knowledge or 
training, it might have  played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept 
it may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been 
overly concerned given  that if Mr K was unable (through disability) to carry  on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up what I deem to be a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN99731967Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr K would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, he thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr K compensation, as that would put 
him in a better  position  than he would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr K, in 
Ref: DRN99731968the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr K in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9973196