K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (CdV) failed to 
arrange a transfer of her defined benefit  (DB) pension in good  time, resulting in the transfer 
value dropping by about  £26,000. Shes represented  in this complaint by her husband, Mr K.
background 
The circumstances of this complaint were  set out in my provisional decision of 17 January 
2019. A copy of that is attached and forms part of this final decision.  I have  corrected a 
typographical error Mr K kindly highlighted and changed wouldnt to would  in the sentence: 
So I still consider the contractor was offering a poor level of service   and it looks  to me that 
even with better clarification from the scheme, these errors wouldnt still have been  made.
In summary,  I upheld Mrs Ks complaint on the grounds that CdV had communicated the 
possible timescales for the transfer  poorly, and it failed to chase up its contractor who was 
providing the transfer value analysis. I also thought these  avoidable  delays prevented CdV 
from giving  its advice  in time for the deadline, even allowing for the additional time it might 
have taken for its compliance department  to review that advice.
However I thought  there would understandably have been  some reluctance by CdV to 
facilitate the transfer,  if it thought Mr and Mrs K were  rushing into a decision which  could well 
have ended up being to reject its advice.  And having  to reject the advice might have been a 
source of further  difficulty for Mr and Mrs K; with CdV or any other adviser they might  have 
chosen to use.
More importantly as Mrs K had not yet been  able to complete the transfer through another 
adviser at the time of making the provisional decision, and it wasnt clear she would  do so, I 
couldnt be satisfied  shed suffered a financial loss. That was because  despite the different 
format of the DB pension, it was likely to be of greater financial value overall  than the more 
flexible type of pension payable from her new plan. I proposed  making an award only for the 
distress and inconvenience shed suffered from CdVs poor communication.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr K confirmed that they were  still exploring making 
the transfer with a new adviser. He anticipated  having a confirmed transfer value within  the 
next 4-6 weeks so that there was a benchmark  to calculate the loss Mrs K had suffered.
They didnt accept  the provisional  decision.  Mr K provided a detailed statement of their 
financial circumstances to evidence  that he and Mrs K had a thoroughly reasoned  plan as to 
why they thought transferring Mrs Ks pension would be a good idea. He said that as a result  
of CdVs conduct, they cancelled all their financial arrangements with CdV at considerable 
personal financial cost.  They  also spent about £500 on legal advice  concerning their claim 
against CdV.  He added  that once  the complaint had been lodged,  their CdV adviser was 
unable to assist  them with their financial planning  at a critical time for both Mr and Mrs K.
Mr K made the following  points about  the CdV advisers approach to advising Mrs K:
-He had been their existing  adviser  for five years and they had an excellent  working  
relationship.
-The advisers view had been  that sufficient  time existed to make Mrs Ks transfer  
before the transfer value expired.
-The adviser explained that the critical yield for transferring would likely appear  high,  
but transferring  fitted in with Mr and Mrs Ks long-term investment strategy.
Ref: DRN99099832-The tax-free lump  sum was not urgently needed as they had adequate cash savings 
on easy access.
-Mr and Mrs K didnt  have a preconceived idea of what they wanted to do. The 
adviser had every  opportunity to dissuade them from transferring but, equally, they 
anticipated that they might receive  that advice and had enough  time to react to it.
-I was wrong to suggest  that CdV might have been reluctant to facilitate the transfer in 
the event that Mr and Mrs K were being  rushed into making a decision. The adviser  
told them  verbally that he was still willing to transfer.
In response to the provisional decision, CdV commented that the change  to transfer values 
calculated by the DB schemes actuaries were beyond the control of any financial firm. It 
said it could not guarantee the timescale  of any process which included the involvement of 
third parties, namely the scheme trustees, and so it did not provide such  guarantees.
Mr K later confirmed that the new transfer value quoted to Mrs K and valid until 6 June 2019 
was £177,198.00.  The transfer wasnt completed  by that date, although Mr and Mrs K 
believed the paperwork  had been  submitted in time. It subsequently transpired that the 
scheme wouldnt accept  the new advisers  version  of the confirmation of appropriate advice 
form and required its own version completing.  In the process of doing this the new adviser 
obtained an updated transfer value  of £189,895 at no cost to Mrs K on 30 August 2019, 
which was then paid.
The investigator responded that Mrs K now had a transfer value that was about 7% higher 
than the value she was hoping to achieve  in September  2017.  So it didnt appear she had 
suffered a financial loss. Given  this, he reminded  Mr and Mrs K that it was open to Mrs K to 
accept the provisional  decision  or if not, she should let us know  the reasons why.
In response Mr and Mrs K said they accepted  the point that the transfer value had increased  
by about 7%, but they believed the amount of compensation for distress  and inconvenience 
and additional  costs should  be reviewed. Referring back  to their earlier comments they 
provided further information about  the cost of moving their investments from CdVs 
management, as theyd received unacceptable  customer service after raising their complaint 
and had no alternative but to change advisers.
The cost of moving two ISAs was £7,775.09 in charges, in addition to the cost of legal advice 
on their complaint as previously mentioned,  and the incalculable number of hours spent in 
preparing argument  and counter argument documentation in relation to the process. 
Information provided by their new adviser  suggests  this £7,775.09 results  from a reduced 
initial advice cost of 2.7%  to transfer the two ISAs.
As both parties have  now commented and we have the information  I was lacking at the time 
of my provisional decision (the actual transfer  value Mrs K has achieved), Im now in a 
position to make my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
financial loss
To address what CdV has said I agree that the change to transfer values is beyond its 
control. But that doesnt mean its never appropriate  to consider requiring compensation to 
Ref: DRN99099833be paid for the change  in transfer value,  if there  was a clear  delay causing  the consumer to 
suffer that loss. That would include an unnecessary  delay caused by CdVs contractor (or its 
failure to chase that contractor).
Mr and Mrs K have  now provided further  evidence of why they dont  think it would have been 
a problem for Mrs K to transfer,  if necessary by acting insistently against the advice  she 
received, and complete the transfer  before 26 September  2017. I previously had some 
doubts about this because even  though  the adviser  might have  indicated  they would be able 
to help Mrs K, this was likely done without the knowledge of CdVs compliance  department.  
And I dont  think its unreasonable that CdV as a firm would want  to have some oversight 
over this  it is, after all, what the regulator  expects them to do.
However I think this point is now moot on the basis that, despite the delay in transferring, 
Mrs K obtained an increase in the transfer value which  in my view is commensurate with the 
investment growth  she might otherwise has received  had she transferred sooner. So Im not 
in a position to conclude  that shes actually lost out financially from the delay. 
costs
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K found it necessary to cancel all their financial arrangements  
with CdV,  but that is often  the consequence  of making a complaint where the relationship 
with the firm (if not the adviser  in this case) has broken  down. Either  party  can choose to end 
the client agreement  and in my view it was still Mr and Mrs Ks choice  to do so even if they 
felt they had little alternative. I dont  consider  I can reasonably hold CdV responsible for the 
cost of transferring  both Mr and Mrs Ks plans elsewhere. 
The charges  Mr and Mrs K have highlighted were  for advice on where  to invest the funds 
with their new adviser, rather than an exit charge  from the plans that CdV managed. Im not 
in a position to say that Mr and Mrs K wont have  benefited from receiving fresh  advice, and 
how much  they pay for that advice  I note it was a discounted amount  is a matter  between 
them and their new adviser.
Regarding their legal  costs, whilst  Mr and Mrs K were entitled to seek that advice I dont 
agree it was essential for them to do so in order to present a case to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, which is an alternative to the courts.  Likewise, whilst making  a 
complaint to this service  (just as to the business concerned) is likely  to be time-consuming, 
we dont provide  compensation  specifically  for this. I would make the point that were  a free 
service for consumers to use and we have an inquisitorial role to get to the bottom  of a 
dispute, however  extensively its addressed in the submissions we receive.  
In summary,  therefore, Im not making an award  for costs in this case,  other than requiring 
CdV to refund £175 plus VAT, subject to appropriate evidence, for the second transfer value 
Mrs K had to obtain (but not the third transfer  value, which was not required as a result of 
CdVs actions).
distress and inconvenience
Ive reviewed the previous amount I proposed for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delay, in light of Mr Ks and CdVs further  comments. I dont underestimate that CdVs 
failure to complete the advice process  on Mrs Ks pension transfer came at a particularly 
awkward time in both their retirement planning. But I would  make  the point that its the 
impact on Mrs K alone, as the complainant, which Im considering in making an award on 
this case. 
Ref: DRN99099834I consider the amount I previously proposed  of £400 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the initial upset  caused, and its comparable  to other  awards  the ombudsman  service has 
made in similar circumstances. I dont think its appropriate for me to provide compensation 
for the inconvenience  of Mrs (and Mr) K subsequently deciding to change  adviser, for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
my final decision
I remain satisfied that the delays  in providing  advice caused Mrs K significant  distress and 
inconvenience even  though they have not caused  a financial loss. In this respect I require 
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mrs K the sum of £400.
It also appears that because of the excessive delay,  Mrs K had to spend £175 plus VAT to 
obtain the second updated transfer value  from the employers scheme, which in the 
circumstances might have been  unnecessary. I require Chase de Vere  Independent  
Financial Advisers Limited  to reimburse this cost, subject to appropriate evidence that Mrs K 
has had to pay it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99099835PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 17 JANUARY 2019
background
On 22 March 2017 Mrs Ks former employers pension scheme sent her an information pack 
informing her of her approaching retirement date.  This contained details  of her deferred 
pension benefits,  albeit it seems in a form which was aimed  at a scheme member rather 
than a financial adviser. (For instance the transfer  value of £182,356 quoted wasnt 
guaranteed for any length of time  and there  wasnt a detailed breakdown of how the 
different parts  of the pension were revalued.)
Mrs K looked into the option of transferring her pension in order  to access  it flexibly,  and first 
met an adviser from CdV (with whom they were long-standing  clients)  on 12 May.
Mr K says they agreed terms for CdV to transfer  her into a drawdown plan in the full 
knowledge that we did not request or require him to provide formal financial advice. 
However he acknowledges that CdV had explained it was a legislative and regulatory 
requirement for it to analyse the viability of the transfer (which it contracted to a third party), 
and then make recommendations. On 16 May CdV wrote to confirm  the terms of business 
and in its letter it said:
[the contractor] are currently  quoting  a two week turnaround time (starting from the date 
they receive the information) to produce the required report.
A guaranteed transfer value of £179,696 was obtained whilst data was being  gathered  for 
the contractors  analysis and this was guaranteed for three  months until 26 September. As 
Mrs Ks pension  date was at the end of September, Mr and Mrs K believe this was an 
implied completion date for the transfer,  and mention  they were  always  going to carry out the 
transfer irrespective  of any advice given. They say they verbally informed the adviser that 
they were willing to absolve  him of any responsibility  for the actions they took, and started  to 
make financial  plans  for receiving the tax-free cash sum from Mrs Ks pension  by that date.
Mr K considers the contractor caused avoidable  delays resulting  in the 26 September 
deadline being missed  for which CdV becomes responsible as a result. The resulting new 
transfer value  issued by the scheme  on 9 November 2017 was £153,051, again guaranteed  
for three months. The contractor provided its updated analysis (consisting of 23 pages) 
based on the new transfer value  to CdV on 27 November 2017,  having first provided one on 
the old transfer value on 21 November.
Mr K says that CdV failed  to monitor the performance of its contractor  and had CdV 
communicated the likely  timescale to Mrs K beforehand,  she would have considered  
pursuing one of the alternative options  offered  by the pension trustees. These appear to 
include the offer of financial  advice (at a lower or nil fee) from the employers appointed firm 
of advisers.
In response to Mr Ks complaint CdV explained that Mrs K was legally required to show  that 
she had obtained  financial advice in order for the pension trustees to pay out the transfer 
value, and the advice process was set out by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).  So it 
disagreed that its retainer  was only to execute  the transfer on Mrs Ks instructions. 
Ultimately its advice  (which Mrs K could then choose to disregard) would have  been  not to 
transfer the pension. It added  that it could not be responsible for any delays caused  by third 
parties, and there was no documentary evidence of an agreed completion date. The 
contractors reference  to a time frame of several  weeks was only once all the requested  
Ref: DRN99099836information from the trustees  had been received. But as a result  of the complaint, CdV 
waived any fees for the work  carried out in preparing to give advice.
Mr and Mrs K are still considering whether to transfer at a lower  (or similar)  value, and 
brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should succeed for the following reasons:
He agreed with Mr K that CdV was responsible  for any delays  caused  by the 
contractor because  it was acting  on CdVs behalf.
There wasnt written  confirmation that the contractor would complete its analysis by 
any particular time.  However  CdV needed  to ensure it acted in a timely  manner.
There was a reasonable expectation that advice and paperwork could  be completed 
in time to secure the transfer value within the guaranteed period. Otherwise,  that 
advice might well be affected by a change in the transfer value.
The adviser had admitted  to Mr K that the contractor had taken far too long. On 
three occasions it sent emails  to the wrong email  address for the employers scheme, 
causing up to nine weeks delay. 
But the contractors  actions in chasing  for the outstanding information (with the 
correct scheme contact details)  mitigated some of its errors.  It appeared the scheme 
did also take some time to send replies  to the information requested.
The original transfer value expired on 25 September  2017, and it didnt seem the 
transfer analysis  could reasonably have been  completed before then but for these 
errors.
It would  have been difficult for CdV to communicate a timeframe for completing the 
advice process (so that Mrs K could  consider  another route)  because  it was unable to 
anticipate precisely what queries  would arise from its contractors review.
Mr K didnt agree. In summary, he said:
-CdV was now telling him that these transfers  could  take four to six months, but its file 
showed it made follow-up calls with the contractor on 21 June, 7 & 21 July and 24 
August  which it wouldnt have made if it was expecting it to take months longer.
-The contractor allowed CdV to think that the employers scheme was the cause of 
the delays, when that wasnt the case. CdV didnt  know  or try to find out that there 
were issues  it needed  to address with its contractor  until 18 September when the 
second valuation  was about  to expire.
-The main result of the contractors chases for information was to establish  it had sent 
previous requests to the wrong contact address at the employers scheme. Little 
attempt was made to establish this on the phone.
-The scheme consistently responded within one or two days of its target turnaround of 
ten working days once  it had received  a correctly addressed  request.
-The contractor took six working days to respond to each of the schemes replies, 
which wasnt an indication of any urgency on its part.
-We would have  expected the Financial Ombudsman Service  to recognise such 
deficiencies as wholly contrary to minimum industry service level expectations, 
irrespective of whether  completion  guarantees were offered or not
-Mrs K suffered  an immediate financial loss because she had to cancel the transfer  
once the valuation had dropped by £26,000.
-They arent seeking compensation if the valuation  was to further decrease in the 
future, and would allow  CdV the opportunity to recover some of its loss if the transfer  
value subsequently rises.
-They dont understand the relevance  to the original analysis of information requested  
after 25 September and why a new transfer  value  wasnt  requested  until 6 October. 
Ref: DRN99099837This suggested the contractor hadnt been able to ask the appropriate questions  at 
the right time. As the employers scheme in the main performed to expectation we 
believe that, on the balance of probabilities, it is highly unlikely that they were 
consistently inadequate in the content of their responses.
-Without all these  delays the analysis should  have been  completed by 5 September.  
The adviser indicated  during the initial instruction that there would  be no further delay 
after this, as the report was for legislative purposes only,  given that we had already 
instructed him to transfer in any event.
-As evidence of this, he asked  Mrs K if she wished to go ahead with the transfer once 
the value had fallen.
The investigator looked into what Mr K had said, but found evidence  that the scheme had 
agreed to backdate an information request to the date of the contractors original (incorrectly-
addressed) email, but it didnt appear  this had resulted in the scheme replying any more  
quickly  it still took a further  two weeks. And on another  occasion  it took the scheme about 
a month  to reply to a (correctly-addressed) request from the contractor.
In the investigators  view,  the contractor didnt  receive everything it needed until 3 November 
2017. The report was then issued on 27 November 2017 (but as Ive noted above, it appears  
this was to update the transfer value; a report using the out of date transfer  value was issued  
within 14 days on 21 November 2017).
CdV said it had no further comments to make. Mr K contacted the occupational scheme  to 
obtain copies  of the information requests and replies. It transpired from this that the 
questions the contractor had asked on 13 July (initially  to an incorrect  address) could already 
be answered in a member-specific transfer quotation pack the scheme had issued directly to 
CdV on 26 June 2017.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
could the advice have been  given in time?
The non-guaranteed information pack Mrs K had received in March 2017 indicated  that she 
could ask for a formal  transfer quote. CdV requested this shortly  after it was instructed, on 
23 May from the schemes correct postal address  the same day it passed  the file to its 
contractor. It doesnt appear  that the contractor  was aware this request had been made, as it 
duplicated it with its own on 7 June  but sent to the wrong email address.
Although the contractor  established it had made a mistake and emailed the correct address 
on 19 June, the scheme  did in any event  post its member-specific  transfer pack   directly to 
the named individual  who had requested  it at CdV  on 26 June 2017. So it appears the 
scheme had received the original posted  request and this had taken a month to reply to. The 
transfer value  in this pack was now £179,696, guaranteed for three months until 26 
September. 
Separately, the scheme replied to the contractors questions on 4 July  commenting that it 
wont be providing a lot of the member-specific information because  this was contained in 
the transfer pack we are also producing. CdV says that it received the pack on 30 June and 
passed this directly to the contractor (and it does appear on the file). Whilst some  general 
Ref: DRN99099838information documents from the transfer pack were duplicated in the schemes reply directly 
to the contractor, the member-specific  information wasnt actually included.  
As a result it seems the contractor repeated its member-specific  questions  and asked  the 
scheme for an updated transfer value on 13 July. Both of these suggest it hadnt  received or 
noticed the more extensive  information CdV had sent across from the transfer pack itself,  
including the transfer value. As CdV has agreed it received the transfer pack,  in my view it 
becomes responsible for ensuring that it reached the contractor without being lost. 
It may be that the pack was received but there was unfortunately some confusion  because 
the contractor was already in the process of asking  its own questions.  In that regard I dont 
think it was particularly helpful that the scheme wasnt explicit in pointing out to the 
contractor that the pack we are also producing had in fact already been issued to CdV on 
26 June. I think this would reasonably  have  prompted the contractor to double-check with 
CdV both parties had received, and what was still required. 
Whilst this provides some explanation for the confusion which followed, it doesnt explain 
why some of the more  general scheme information  questions the contractor  made on 13 July 
had already been answered in the reduced volume  of material it did receive from the scheme 
on 4 July. So I still consider the contractor was offering a poor level of service  and it looks 
to me that even  with better clarification from the scheme, these  errors  would  still have been  
made. Ultimately it was still the contractors role (for which CdV is then responsible)  to check 
carefully through the various  replies  issued  before  requesting more information.
Again the contractors request of 13 July was sent to the wrong email address it was aware  
of previously, so it had to be re-sent on 26 July  an error I think  was inexcusable. The 
scheme replied 11 working days later on 10 August with a copy  of the missing member-
specific information from the transfer  pack. That information contained details  of an 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) pension and/or a pension  Mrs K had transferred  
into the scheme. 
The contractor should already have  been in possession of these, as CdV says it forwarded 
the whole  transfer pack on 30 June. But on 18 August  this prompted further questions from 
the contractor to the scheme, such as the rate of revaluation and spouses  pension on these 
other parts of the pension.  They were  again sent to the wrong  email  address and werent  re-
sent until 7 September. The scheme  responded 11 working days later on 22 September.
The contractor chose  to ask further questions  on 2 October which  it seems  werent  entirely 
dependent on getting an answer to its previous questions first. But equally I accept that the 
analysis required is a complex process.  And answers to some  questions can prompt  further 
enquiries and reveal  further information is ultimately  needed. Its not my role to substitute the 
contractors professional judgement as to the information it required with my own.  
On this occasion it took the scheme just over a month to reply  (on 3 November, despite 
chasing), which  I note is similar to the timescale it took to originally provide the transfer pack.  
At both times it seems to me this was because the request was not within the currency  
period of a guaranteed transfer value, so the request received a lower  priority. Im satisfied 
the response would  have  been more consistent  with other timescales,  had it been  made  
whilst there  was still time to complete a transfer before the 26 September  deadline.
Whilst the contractor was producing its analysis, an updated transfer value  was obtained on 
9 November. Whether CdV or the contractor received this value,  it appears  the relevant 
Ref: DRN99099839person wasnt made aware of it, so the analysis first produced on 21 November (having 
taken eight working days) was based  on the out-of-date value.
From all of this I conclude that CdV should  have ensured its contractor  was aware  of the 
transfer pack it had received  and forwarded  on 30 June. This should  have answered all the 
questions the contractor asked up to and including those the scheme  replied to on 10 
August. At that time it then took the contractor six working days to formulate its next 
questions.
So in the alternate timeline, allowing five working days for the original transfer pack  to pass 
between CdV and its contractor, and then six working days for the contractor to formulate 
that response, its questions should have  been asked on 17 July 2017.  It then seems  the 
scheme would  have been able to reply within 11 working days, had the contractors request 
been sent to the correct email address  bringing  us to 1 August 2017. 
It would then have  taken the contractor  the same  six further working days  to formulate  its 
additional questions, and as Ive explained above I think  the scheme would likely have 
prioritised a reply at that time, taking only 11 further  working days. This brings us to 24 
August 2017.  The contractors  analysis  would then have taken the same eight working days, 
and could potentially  have been  ready by 5 September  2017.  At that time the guaranteed  
transfer value  was due to expire on 26 September  leaving three weeks for CdV to provide 
its advice based  on this analysis.
I dont share  Mr Ks optimism that the adviser  would simply  have  regarded  this advice as 
something which could  be dismissed lightly. I can see his difficulty as Mr and Mrs K were 
already had a preconceived  idea of what they wanted to do. In my experience, some 
advisers would  have been reluctant to take on a new client  who seemed all too ready to 
disregard the benefit of the advice which the law requires them to be given for their own 
protection. But in this case, Mr and Mrs K were  long-standing clients  of CdV and I think the 
adviser was understandably attempting to assist them  with what  they wanted to do. But its 
also clear,  even on the basis of Mr Ks recollections, that he warned them he would have to 
go through a regulated advice process.  
It would be typical practice  for the advisers  report  to also be reviewed by the business 
compliance department,  Particularly given the size of the transfer  value and what we now 
know to be a relatively high critical yield required for it to be viable, theyve told us in no 
unequivocal terms that the advice would  have been  firmly against transferring. Im satisfied 
that three  weeks would  have been enough time for the compliance department to sign off 
on such advice if necessary  particularly given  that all parties should have been aware of 
the deadline. However I dont think this would have necessarily left Mr and Mrs K with much 
time to react  to the advice they were  being  given, before  26 September  was reached.
would Mrs K have transferred?
I now have to reconcile Mr Ks statement that he and his wife would have rejected any such  
advice, with the fact that he has not seen  precisely  how this advice was set out and what 
specific warnings it contained. When reaching a decision Im required to consider whats fair 
and reasonable,  and in my view its an unreasonable position for Mr and Mrs K to adopt that 
they would  not have  paid any attention  to more timely advice which should have been 
provided by CdV, based on the analysis of a contractor experienced in pension transfers.
Furthermore, even though  matters did not proceed with CdV Im not aware that Mrs K has 
made any further attempts to transfer since late 2017  or what  indeed  the current  transfer 
Ref: DRN990998310value might be. This is despite the suggestion that the tax-free cash was urgently needed. I 
would have expected to find further evidence of their commitment to transferring come what 
may if I were to conclude  that the transfer  would have definitely  happened at that point  
irrespective of CdVs advice. 
This is before I even  take into account  that the scheme would need to have seen a signed  
statement from CdV confirming that it had provided the advice (as required under section 48 
of the Pension  Schemes  Act 2015), in order to release any funds before the guarantee 
period expired. Even  if the adviser  had not initially appreciated  this, I think  there would 
understandably be some reluctance by CdV to facilitate  a transfer based on a decision Mr 
and Mrs K might have rushed into, to disregard its advice. And that might  have been a 
source of further  difficulty for Mr and Mrs K; with CdV or any other adviser they might  have 
chosen to use.
As a result Im not currently in a position to conclude  that Mrs K has suffered a financial loss 
for which I can make an award. Firstly,  I dont  have the degree of confidence to say the 
transfer would have taken place at any particular value. But secondly, because the future 
value of the benefits in her scheme  in terms of a stream of annual  income has not changed. 
Only the transfer  value  over three  months  has, but she has not received the lower value  so 
that difference has not been  crystallised.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs K might have  been  seeking flexibility in the payment of benefits 
by transferring. But the relatively high critical yield implied by the analysis suggests that the 
future stream of income from the scheme  is worth more than the resulting fund would have 
been likely  to grow  to, having transferred  from the scheme. So I dont think  it would be 
appropriate to compensate them  for a loss of flexibility that cant  be quantified, when the 
likely gain Mrs K will experience by remaining in the scheme can more readily be projected.
Therefore, at present my conclusion is that it would only be appropriate for me to make an 
award in respect  of CdVs communications to Mr and Mrs K, which  I agree implied that she 
could have received the advice before her retirement date in September 2017.  I think  that 
could also have been achieved, but due to the failings  of CdV and its contractor was not.
did CdV communicate  reasonable timescales to Mr and Mrs K?
Ive noted the advisers comment about a two-week turnaround time. But he stated this was 
after the contractor  received the information. The adviser could have been clearer  here in 
acknowledging that he was not the expert party carrying out the analysis  so if was for them  
to decide when they had enough information. From what  we now know, the contractor did 
actually provide its analysis within a two-week  period after its final questions were answered.
We dont have as clear a record  of what the adviser  said about how long it would then take 
to give advice based on this analysis. There is agreement that he warned Mr and Mrs K of 
the regulatory requirement for advice, but Im not satisfied any particular time commitment 
was given. My expectations for how quickly this advice could have been provided  (above) 
are typical  for this type of transaction and, importantly, I think it could have been achieved  
within the timeframe Mr and Mrs K wanted in any case.
So the main failing here was in not warning Mr and Mrs K that the contractor would need to 
satisfy itself it had sufficient information before embarking on the analysis. I dont agree with 
Mr K that CdV could  have  predicted the contractor would take as long as it did, as thats  
unlikely to have  been its experience in the past. And, as Mr K has found, what seems to be 
an influx of pension transfer business prompted by market conditions during 2017  seems to 
Ref: DRN990998311have led to adverse  commentary about the contractor. I think thats also fed into CdVs  
comments that transfers are taking  over four months  but I dont agree thats always been 
the expectation. 
Even if the slowdown in processing times  came  as a surprise,  I agree with Mr Ks comments  
that CdV could have  done more to follow up why the contractor was taking so long.  A 
significant (and inexcusable) reason for this was that it was sending requests repeatedly to 
the wrong email  address.  I think CdV could have established this was the issue sooner, and 
kept Mr and Mrs K better updated. However there  would inevitably still have been a time lag 
before this was established, and CdV was then obliged  to manage their expectations that the 
timescales were slipping.
 
Mr and Mrs K say that that had they known  this sooner, they would have taken up the 
alternative option of low-cost advice from the employers appointed advisers. But I have to 
bear in mind  that theyd already rejected that option and, at least at the beginning, preferred 
to use advisers they already had a relationship  with. I think  half of the three-month guarantee 
period could easily have been  exhausted  before it might have occurred to Mr and Mrs K to 
see if they could  switch back to the other  firm. 
By that point, I think it would likely  have  been  difficult for that firm to turn around  its own 
analysis and then provide  advice. And we still have the same  issues to contend  with as 
above  we dont know what that advice would have been,  but its perhaps  more likely than 
not that it would  also have  been not to transfer. And we dont know  what approach  the other 
firm would have taken  to facilitating a transfer it hadnt recommended  or the risk of leaving 
Mrs K with insufficient time to make a decision before the transfer  value expired.
So I havent found a reason to go further than Ive already  indicated  above in upholding  this 
complaint in part, and providing compensation only in respect of CdVs poor communication 
and the errors by its contractor for which  its ultimately  responsible. 
my provisional decision
Im satisfied that the shortcomings Ive identified  above caused  Mrs K significant distress and 
inconvenience. My view is that an award of £400 would be consistent  with the range of 
awards the ombudsman  service has made  in broadly similar circumstances for the upset 
caused. So I intend to require Chase  de Vere Independent Financial Advisers  Limited to pay 
this to Mrs K as fair and reasonable compensation.
It also appears that because of the excessive delay,  Mrs K had to spend £175 plus VAT to 
obtain the updated transfer value from the employers scheme, which  in the circumstances 
might have been unnecessary. I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to reimburse this cost,  subject  to appropriate 
evidence that Mrs K has had to pay it.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909983