K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc automatically renewed their buildings  and 
contents insurance policy and continued  to take payments without their knowledge.
Mr and Mrs C are represented  by Mr Cs father  in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill 
refer to all submissions as being  made by Mr and Mrs C directly.
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs C moved house.  They  contacted Santander to add buildings  insurance  
to their existing contents insurance policy. They informed Santander of the new address  they 
wanted to insure.  But it continued to correspond with Mr and Mrs C at their previous 
address. This meant that Mr and Mrs C didnt  receive any documentation or correspondence  
relating to their new policy. 
Over the years Mr and Mrs C forgot they were  insured with Santander.  Their  policy  
automatically renewed each year and payment was taken each month  by direct debit from 
Mrs Cs bank account. So, Mr and Mrs C made payments to Santander  over a period of 14 
years. But, as they say they werent aware  their policy with Santander was renewing each 
year, they took out insurance with other insurers causing them  to be dual insured.
In February 2017  Mr and Mrs C wanted  to extend  their mortgage to cover  the cost of some 
home improvements. They were  told they needed  insurance and, being unaware of their 
existing policy with Santander, took out insurance  with an insurer that Ill refer to as E in 
this decision. 
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs C noticed  policy  premiums were debiting Mrs Cs account 
each month  by direct debit. On querying this Mr and Mrs C were  informed  that this was for 
the policy of insurance  that they had amended  in 2005, which they had been paying for each 
month over the last 14 years.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with this and complained to Santander. It investigated  but didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It didnt think it had acted unfairly in taking payment from 
Mrs Cs account each  month since 2005  as it thought she should have been aware she had 
a policy  in place.  But it did accept it hadnt  responded to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint promptly 
and had made an error in how it had recorded their correspondence address. To 
acknowledge these  issues  it offered to pay them £300 compensation.
Being dissatisfied with how Santander had resolved their complaint Mr and Mrs C referred  it 
to our service. After our investigator assessed the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs C and 
Santander they didnt uphold this complaint.  Overall,  our investigator thought Santander had 
dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs complaint fairly. And they didnt think  it needed  to do anything  
further because  it had made a fair offer of compensation, which recognised  the poor service 
Mr and Mrs C had experienced. But Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree with our investigator  and 
asked that an ombudsman decide their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99638312My role is to assess whether I think Santander  made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs C 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things  right.  Santander has already accepted  
responsibility for the error  it made in not changing Mr and Mrs Cs correspondence address 
to match  the address they were insuring. So, the issue here is whether it acted fairly  and 
reasonably in offering to put things right.
This problem  continued  for so long because, other than sending correspondence about  
renewing Mr and Mrs Cs policy, Santander  had no reason to communicate with them. It 
didnt receive any returned  mail it had sent Mr and Mrs C. So, it had no reason to realise its 
error until it was brought to its attention by Mr and Mrs C. And this only happened after they 
became aware  they were  making payments to Santander in February 2019  at which  point 
they queried what those  payments were for.
Mr and Mrs C want a refund of all premiums they paid Santander  since  2005. But our service 
cant consider a complaint if more than six years  have  elapsed since the date of the event 
complained of, or (if later)  more than three  years  from the date on which  a complainant  
became aware  (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Santander about what happened in March  2019. And I can see 
that an ombudsman  has already decided  that our service cant consider the mistake  with the 
address, so my focus is on the issue  of dual insurance. 
Santander said the address it insured was the property Mr and Mrs C moved to in 2005. And 
it confirmed that, while  it was insuring them, it would have indemnified  them had they 
needed to claim under  their policy  irrespective of the address  error.  So, Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs C would have  had the benefit of their policy with Santander had they need to use it. 
I appreciate they say they couldnt  have benefitted  from it because  they werent aware of it. 
But I think they ought reasonably have been aware  of it from their bank statements. So, this 
means if theyd really needed  to claim they couldve seen they had insurance.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  our service with a copy of their home insurance with E. The 
inception date of the policy Ive seen  is February 2017. So, Im satisfied that from February 
2017 onwards  Mr and Mrs C were dual insured.  And Im pleased  to see that Mr and Mrs C 
have already been refunded all premiums paid from February 2017 onwards, which I think  is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C want Santander to refund the premiums they paid until 2017. But I havent 
seen any evidence that shows they were  insured by other insurers during that period. I 
understand that no evidence of earlier policies has been provided to Santander. So, theres 
nothing to show they were  dual insured. In such circumstances I cant  make a finding  that Mr 
and Mrs C were  dual insured before February  2017 and this means I cant fairly  ask 
Santander to return any premiums they paid during that period.
 
Having carefully considered statements  Ive seen of Mrs Cs bank  account  I can see that 
payment was taken  by direct debit each month.  I understand that the monthly payment 
increased over the years  to just over £100 in 2018  and around  £120 in 2019.  That isnt an 
insignificant amount of money and I think its reasonable to expect Mrs C to be aware  that 
relatively large payments were debiting her account each month.
 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Santander accepts it should  have  
corresponded with Mr and Mrs C at their insured address. It also acknowledged it should  
Ref: DRN99638313have responded  to their complaint earlier and that they were dual insured. To recognise 
those errors  Santander  offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £300. Its clear  they dont think  this 
adequately reflects  their distress and inconvenience.  So, Ive considered whether that 
amount is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of this complaint.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Santander to 
pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  Having  thought carefully about the 
impact all of this had on Mr and Mrs C, Im satisfied that the £300 Santander has offered  
them is a fair amount  of compensation for Santander to pay. Its in line with our approach in 
similar scenarios and its what  I would  have suggested Santander pay had no offer been 
made. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C think Santander should  increase that offer.  But I 
havent seen any evidence that shows a higher  award is warranted  here.  So, I wont be 
telling Santander  to increase that offer. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed  with this decision.  But it brings to an end 
what we, in trying to resolve  their dispute  with Santander informally, can do for them. Im 
sorry we cant help Mr and Mrs C any further with this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im aware  that Santander UK Plc has 
made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Santander  UK Plc should pay 
Mr and Mrs C £300 to resolve this complaint, if it hasnt done so already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9963831