K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  about  charges Santander UK Plc has applied  to her current account 
while shes  been experiencing  financial difficulty.
background
Miss P has a current  account  with Santander and its allowed her to have an overdraft of 
£2,000 on the account. Miss P has occasionally exceeded her agreed overdraft and incurred 
charges as a result  of this.
Miss P complained to Santander about the charges  that were being applied  to her account.  It 
didnt uphold  her complaint  about the charges  because it said they were  in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of her account. However,  it refunded  charges totalling  £67 and 
cancelled charges amounting to £58 that were due to be debited  to the account. It also paid 
Miss P £50 because it thought it could have  assisted her sooner than it did.
Miss P wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  Santander  
should refund any more  charges because  they had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. He also thought  Santander had offered her support and 
information to help with her financial  difficulty.
Miss P didnt agree with our adjudicators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss P opened her current account  with Santander she agreed to its terms and 
conditions. These include  charges  that will be debited to the account for using an agreed 
overdraft and additional charges that will be applied if the agreed overdraft is exceeded 
and/or Miss P requests  payments  from her account when there  are insufficient funds to 
cover those payments.
Im satisfied the charges Santander  has debited  to Miss Ps account have been applied in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions, I think Miss P ought  to have known she would 
incur these charges  when  she requested  payments from her account that meant  she would 
exceed her agreed  overdraft. Im not persuaded Ive seen evidence  that would enable me to 
conclude the charges  havent been applied  fairly  and reasonably.
Santander has an obligation to treat Miss P fairly and sympathetically when it becomes 
aware she is experiencing financial  difficulty. Miss P told Santander  she was in financial 
difficulty in 2017  and it accepted in its response  to her complaint it could have offered her 
assistance at an earlier date. Its refunded and cancelled some  charges and its paid Miss P 
£50. I think this is reasonable  compensation for any trouble  and upset she suffered as a 
result of the delay.
Ref: DRN90347092Santander now wants Miss P to speak to its financial  support  team.  I think this is a 
reasonable request. It would enable Santander to ascertain the extent and causes of 
Miss Ps financial difficulty and to decide on what action would be appropriate to help her to 
resolve her problems.
Miss P says shes unable  to speak to Santanders  financial support team  by telephone 
because she has to work extremely long hours and she isnt available when the teams 
telephone lines are open. She thinks Santander  should be able to deal with the matter  by 
email.
Im sympathetic to Miss Ps situation  but I can see why Santander  thinks it would be best to 
deal with the review  of Miss Ps finances by telephone. It could raise  any questions  it has 
with her there and then.  It could be a lengthy process to obtain  the relevant information  by 
email. And I think, despite Miss Ps long working  hours, it ought  to be possible  for her to 
speak to the team when its lines are open.  Especially, as this could help her with her 
financial difficulty.
Im aware Miss P has made a data protection subject access  to Santander and she isnt 
happy with the way Santander has dealt with it. However shes complained  about this to the 
Information Commissioner and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider a complaint 
about the subject access request at the same time.
Im satisfied I have sufficient information  to enable me to make a decision regarding Miss Ps 
complaints about  the charges and the way Santander responded to her financial difficulties. 
If Miss P obtains further information as a result of her subject access request that suggests 
Santander hasnt  treated  her fairly, it will be open to her to make another complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint I make  no award 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034709