K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE wouldnt cover a claim he made on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy. 
background
Mr L says he was incorrectly issued  with littering fines  by a local authority and wanted  to 
pursue legal action against that body for the distress this caused  him. He made a claim on 
his legal expenses  policy. Great Lakes  turned this down because it said there was no cover  
under the policy  for a claim of this nature. 
Having reviewed the policy our investigator  agreed the claim wasnt  covered and didnt think 
Great Lakes had done anything wrong.  Mr L didnt agree. He said hed spoken  to other 
insurers who told him that if hed paid for legal expenses insurance he should  be covered for 
his legal costs.  So I need to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make a successful insurance claim our view is that a policyholder  needs to prove 
their claim. That means they need to show an insured event (something that falls within the 
cover their policy provides) has taken place. 
Mr Ls legal  expenses policy says we will provide  you with legal expenses cover  for the risks 
identified in the following sections. So I think its clear the policy will only provide cover  for 
the insured events it then goes on to set out. Ive reviewed all of those and I cant  see that 
the claim Mr L made would be covered under any of them.  And he hasnt  provided  any 
evidence to show why that would be the case.  
I dont know what discussions Mr L had with other  insurers  but no policy  will cover every  
claim thats made. And for the reasons Ive explained I dont think Great  Lakes treated him 
unfairly in turning down the claim in this case.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9368342