K820x#14complaint and background
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him in June 2014 and January 2018.  This is a summary of Mr Ms borrowing from 
Satsuma.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 20/06/2014 26/09/2014 300
2 3/01/2018 - 1000
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought loan 1 shouldnt  have been 
given. Satsuma disagreed so the complaint been passed to me to make a final decision.
I reached a different conclusion and in my provisional decision (which  forms part of this final 
decision) I set out why I wasnt planning  to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr M and Satsuma 
to let me have any more  information by 29 December 2019 before I made a final decision.
Mr M responded asking  why other  similar  complaints hed made were upheld,  but not this 
one  why arent they all right or wrong.  Satsuma didnt provide any further comments  or 
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
In response to Mr Ms query  I can only comment here on the individual merits of this 
complaint. But I would add that the outcome of each  short-term  lending complaint  and 
indeed each loan within a complaint - can vary. This is because we reach  a decision based 
on the consideration of a number of factors   there  is more information on this and what we 
expect a business to do before lending in the section my provisional findings in my 
provisional decision. 
As neither party sent in any additional information  or evidence in response  to my provision 
decision, it follows I have  no reason  to change the findings or outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision. I would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly  and 
reasonably in any settlement discussions about the outstanding balance on loan 2.
my final decision
My decision  is I am not upholding  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Ref: DRN99137232Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN99137233copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading  as Satsuma  Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  two loans Satsuma provided to Mr M in June 2014 and January 2018. Loan 1 
had a 13-week term and loan 2 a 12-month term. This is a summary of Mr Ms borrowing  from 
Satsuma.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 20/06/2014 26/09/2014 300
2 3/01/2018 - 1000
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint in part and thought loan 1 shouldnt have  been given.  
Satsuma disagreed so the complaint been passed  to me to make  a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr M could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN99137234I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether Mr 
M could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments  were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.  And Ive reached a different  conclusion to the adjudicator. 
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator said that from the checks Satsuma completed for loan one it should have been aware 
that based  on the other  short  term loans Mr M had outstanding  he was unlikely  to be able to 
sustainably repay this loan, or any subsequent loans. Satsuma disagreed saying  its checks  did not 
show excessive loans with other lenders and it had considered the sustainability of Mr Ms borrowing  
when it completed  income and expenditure checks. 
Ive looked at the checks  Satsuma carried  out for loan 1, and what  it should reasonable have 
concluded from the information  it had. Given it was in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  
it carried out proportionate  checks and acted  fairly  based on the data it obtained. It did not have data 
showing that Mr M had a number of other short term loans active at this time. Considering the monthly 
repayments and Mr Ms disclosed disposable income, the loan seemed  affordable, and Ive found  
nothing to suggest Mr M wouldnt have been able to repay the loan sustainably.  It follows  Im not 
currently planning to uphold the complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2 was taken out over three  years later. So I think it would have been reasonable  for Satsuma to 
view that gap as an indication that Mr Ms finances had stabilised after whatever  the circumstances 
that had caused him to take out his previous loan. This means I have looked at loan 2 as a separate 
lending chain.    
   
Like our adjudicator, I can find no grounds to uphold  the complaint about loan 2. I think the checks  
Satsuma carried out for loan 2 were proportionate. Again, given  the monthly  repayment and Mr Ms 
disclosed disposable income the loan seemed  affordable.  I havent seen anything  in the information 
Satsuma gathered that I think should have led it to conclude Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay this loan. 
Mr M says he had many other payday loans  running  at the same time and his credit file would have  
shown he couldnt  afford these loans. But Ive looked that the information  Satsuma received from its 
credit checks and I cant see there was anything on either occasion  that should have led it to decline 
Mr Ms applications. I would add that the information Satsuma  saw may not have been exactly the 
same as what Mr M may have seen on his credit file. A fuller picture of Mr Ms financial position may 
have been apparent if Satsuma  had say asked for bank statements. But given the early stage  in the 
lending relationship and the information it did have, I dont think  it would have been proportionate for 
Satsuma to request this level of information. So I dont think it was wrong  to give loan 1 or 2 to Mr M.
So Im currently  not planning to uphold this complaint. 
I understand there is an outstanding balance on loan 2 and would remind  Satsuma  of its obligation to 
treat Mr M fairly and reasonably  in any settlement discussions.
Ref: DRN99137235my provisional  decision
Im not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9913723