K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Vertu Motors (VMC) Limited didnt provide details of the tyre and alloy 
insurance policy he bought and hes also unhappy  with the way it has dealt with him. He 
says he had to chase things up and there was a delay  in it making a refund of his premium. 
He says hes been inconvenienced and his time has been wasted dealing  with matters. He 
wants compensating.  
background
Vertu apologised in its final response for the fact Mr B didnt get the tyre and alloy policy  
documentation. But the policy had been  discussed  with Mr B at the time of sale and he was 
aware of what it covered.  The policy wasnt  mis-sold. It had provided  a refund of the full 
premium which returned  Mr B to the position  he wouldve been in if he hadnt taken out the 
policy.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Mr B has been refunded the full premium  he paid by the insurer  and the dealer. Vertu 
says the fact Mr B wasnt given  the policy documentation was an oversight by one 
person not standard  practice. Vertu  has apologised for what  happened.
Mr B spent  about two months chasing  Vertu for the documents  and his refund. And 
he says this caused him considerable  inconvenience. But there  will always  be some 
inconvenience when  things go wrong.  Getting  a refund may take some time 
especially when there are a number  of companies involved as was the case  here. 
Vertu didnt significantly  delay  things more than usual.
Mr B says the refund wouldnt have been made  if he hadnt  kept chasing  Vertu.  But 
we cant consider what mightve happened  if he hadnt chased  things  up. He also 
says there are systemic  failings by Vertu.  But we arent the regulator and have no 
power to fine or punish a business.   
Vertu has apologised which  was a reasonable way of resolving the complaint. She 
isnt asking it to do any more.
Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says Vertu 
didnt act reasonably.  His level of inconvenience wasnt reasonable. He was considerably 
inconvenienced by having to chase things up at every step of the way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Vertu accepts it couldve  dealt with Mr B better. It didnt  provide him with documentation  
about his policy as it shouldve done and there  was a slight delay in him receiving  the full 
refund of his premium.  But it did agree  to cancel the policy and a full refund  of the premium 
Ref: DRN96827522he paid has been  made. That put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been  in if he hadnt 
taken out the policy.  That is fair.
Mr B says he was put to considerable and unreasonable  inconvenience in resolving things. 
But all consumers spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience  in 
dealing with a problem and complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally 
recommend theyre  compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart 
from this approach in this case.
Mr B also says there were  failings in Vertus procedures. But this service isnt a regulator. 
We cant fine or punish a business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. 
General issues about how the insurance  industry works are a matter for the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling and frustration, I think the 
adjudicators proposed  resolution of this complaint  is fair. And I dont think  I can reasonably 
require Vertu to do or pay anything more.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9682752