K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that when she called on Aviva  Insurance Limited  (Aviva) for assistance  
under her home emergency  insurance  policy, its engineers:
damaged her toilet causing  a leak;
were rude and unprofessional towards her; and
didnt make good tiling when fitting  a replacement toilet.
background
Mrs M called  on Aviva  in October 2017  when she had a blocked drain in her house affecting 
the toilet, bath and sink. Avivas engineers found a bath waste  pipe had been  pushed too far 
into a soil vent pipe (SVP)  causing a blockage. They cleared  the immediate blockage.
They also removed the toilet to get access to the SVP and correct  the waste  pipe. They  
refitted and reconnected the toilet and tested it several times.
In April 2018, Mrs M contacted Aviva  to say there was water leaking around  the cistern  and 
toilet. Avivas engineer  attended and found  a fitting  where the cistern met the pan was 
missing and the pan itself was damaged and leaking. Mrs M said she thought  the toilet  had 
been damaged  by Avivas engineers during  the November visit.
This engineer disagreed. He said if the damage occurred in November  the toilet  would have  
been losing  a few litres  of water over the floor on every flush. Since  the November visit     
Mrs M had had the bathroom retiled, and her son in law had removed the cistern to try to 
insulate it. So the engineer thought  that was when the toilet was damaged.
Mrs M thought this engineer was rude, uncommunicative and unhelpful and asked him to 
leave the house. She complained to Aviva about his behaviour.
Aviva arranged for a different engineer to attend.  He said Aviva  would fit a replacement 
standard toilet as a matter of goodwill. But it wouldnt make good  any damage to, or gaps in, 
the tiling and required Mrs M to sign a disclaimer to that effect,  which she did.
Mrs M complained to Aviva  about it damaging her toilet, its engineers  rudeness,  and not 
making good the tiling after it fitted  the replacement toilet. Aviva  didnt accept its engineers 
had damaged the toilet, or had been  rude. And it wouldnt  make good the tiling round the 
replacement toilet because Mrs M had acknowledged this wasnt required in the disclaimer  
she signed before it agreed to fit it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  His views in relation 
to the three issues were  as follows.
The damage to the toilet
The investigator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to show  Aviva  was responsible for 
the damage to the toilet. In early November 2017,  Aviva repaired the waste  pipe and 
reconnected and tested  the toilet. It wasnt until five months later that Mrs M complained  to 
Aviva about  the leak. He thought if the toilet was damaged this would have become apparent 
when it was tested.  He also noted  Mrs M had since had the bathroom retiled and her son in 
law had moved the cistern.
Ref: DRN99523242Mrs M responded to say, in summary,  that:
her toilet didnt leak before Aviva  dealt with the blockage in November 2017;
photos of the damaged toilet showed  a build up of mildew, oxidisation  and debris  
which suggested a slow leak over time from the cistern/pan connection;
the tiler couldnt  have caused  the damage. She was present while  he was working 
and the toilet wasnt moved;
water  started appearing on the tiles under the cistern after the November 2017 
repair. Mrs M thought this was condensation  because of the cold winter weather. 
When the weather  improved and water was still there she thought insulating the 
inside of the cistern  might  help.  It was at this point  that the damage to the toilet  was 
found. She denied  it was caused when the cistern was removed; and
she wouldnt have minded paying for a replacement toilet in November if Avivas 
engineer had just told her about the damage rather than covering it up.
The investigator didnt  think anything Mrs M had said or provided was enough to show  that 
Aviva had caused the damage to the toilet.
The behaviour of Avivas  engineer
The investigator said it was difficult for him to say what happened between  Mrs M and the 
engineer during the visit. Mrs M had complained  to Aviva who sent a different engineer  to 
proceed with the call out. He thought Aviva had acted quickly, and reasonably,  to address 
her complaint.
Making good after fitting the replacement toilet.
Aviva didnt accept responsibility  for the damage  to the toilet.  But it said it would supply and 
fit a standard  toilet as a matter of goodwill. Before  doing so it required Mrs M to sign a 
disclaimer that it wasnt responsible for reinstatement. The policy  terms also said Aviva  
wasnt responsible  for reinstatement of decorative  elements.
As he didnt  think Aviva  had caused  the damage  to the original toilet,  he couldnt say it was 
responsible for making good the tiling.
As Mrs M hasnt accepted  the investigators recommendation, this complaint  has been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Im to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, I need  to be satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities, that 
Avivas engineers damaged the toilet, and then covered up the damage, in the course  of 
dealing with the blockage in November  2017.
Mrs M says the damage wasnt  caused  when the bathroom was retiled, or when her son in 
law removed the cistern. So it must have been caused by Avivas engineers.
Ref: DRN99523243Aviva says its engineers  didnt cause the damage, and they would have had no reason to 
cover it up at the time.  It thinks that if the damage  had occurred in November 2017,  the leak 
would have become evident much sooner than five months  later.
The evidence available isnt strong enough  for me to say that Avivas engineers damaged 
the toilet and caused the leak.  It follows that as I cant  say it was responsible for breaking  the 
toilet, I cant require  it to carry out any reinstatement  to the tiling.
Both the policy terms and the disclaimer Mrs M signed make it clear that it isnt responsible  
for decorative reinstatement in the normal course  of the policy. It replaced the toilet  with a 
standard toilet as a matter of goodwill. So I cant require it to do anything  more.
I understand that Mrs M was upset by the behaviour of the engineer who first attended in 
April 2018. She thought  he was rude,  uncommunicative and unhelpful. While I accept that 
this was her perception, I wasnt present and its difficult for me to form a view on this. Aviva 
acted promptly to make a different engineer attend  on later visits. I think this was reasonable 
and dont require  Aviva to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952324