K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr C bought  the policy at a meeting in 1999  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mrs C for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mrs and Mr Cs monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. This benefit was £402.80 initially and cost £21.34 a month.
Mr C was retired at the time.  Mrs C was a public sector worker and had been there 29 years. 
Shes told us she was entitled  to at least 12 months full sick pay and at least six months full 
pay for redundancy. Mrs and Mr C also had savings available to pay the mortgage if Mrs C 
couldnt work. Mrs C has told us of health issues she had including  an ongoing health issue.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2005. Mrs and Mr Cs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mrs and Mr Cs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr C wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs and Mr C 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs and Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The information Mrs and Mr C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN94797192my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ref: DRN94797193Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs and Mr C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs and Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mrs and Mr Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs and Mr C 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mrs and Mr C know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs and Mr C have said they had no 
interest in PPI and have  said it was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. 
I give their recollections some weight, but they set these out for us almost  20 years after the 
sale  so it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt recall  everything vividly. With this in mind, 
what Mrs and Mr C recall isnt, on its own, enough to make me think Halifax didnt give them 
a choice about the PPI  and Ive nothing else to make me think this.
Ref: DRN94797194Also, Mrs C signed a separate  Mortgage Repayments Insurance  Application form to apply 
for the PPI. I think the use of a separate application form wouldve tended to indicate the PPI 
was something separate from mortgage  - and something about which Mrs and Mrs C had a 
separate decision to make. Nothing  on the form says Mrs and Mr C had to take PPI or had to 
sign the form to apply for the cover if they didnt want it. Also,  Ive nothing to make me think 
Halifax wouldnt normally have given customers like Mrs and Mr C a choice about the PPI.
Mrs and Mr C havent said anything to make me think  they were  pressured into opting for the 
PPI. Taking  everything into account, I think its more likely they knew  the PPI was optional 
and agreed to take it without undue pressure  but it would be understandable if they didnt  
recall all the details  now, given how long ago all this was.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mrs and Mr C havent said whether Halifax 
did provide advice. But if Halifax did provide advice, it had to do more. With all this in mind, 
Im persuaded its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs and Mr C with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs and Mr C. Halifax had some information about  Mrs and Mr Cs financial circumstances  
as part of the mortgage application, like their employment statuses - showing only Mrs C 
was employed - and Mrs Cs income  and length of service .
The PPI application  form Mrs C signed  also suggests Halifax checked with her that she was 
employed permanently,  working at least 16 hours  a week  and not aware of any impending  
unemployment. But what I have  doesnt persuade me Halifax  did enough to ensure the PPI 
was suitable and establish Mrs and Mr C had a need for it. For example, Ive nothing to show  
that Halifax asked  Mrs C about her work redundancy  or sick pay entitlements. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs and Mr C given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs and Mr C, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost of the policy  appears 
to have been affordable for Mrs and Mr C.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr C. There  
was nothing about Mrs Cs employment or occupation which  wouldve  made it difficult for 
them to claim. Mrs C had an existing health  issue, but the policy terms didnt exclude 
disability claims for pre-existing health  issues.
Ref: DRN94797195-Only Mrs C was in paid employment and she was the higher  earner.  If she were unable  
to work for a prolonged time due to sickness or redundancy, it seems  likely Mrs and Mr C 
could suffer a drop in income   even allowing for Mrs Cs work benefits. I say this taking 
into account her redundancy entitlement was less than 12 months  pay. Also, what I have 
and what we know of the benefits  in her type of employment makes me think  it likely her 
sick pay entitlement was less than twelve months full pay - six months  full pay followed 
by six months half pay is more common, for example. So, I think Mrs and Mr C wouldve 
found the PPI benefit useful and had a need for the cover.  In any case  the PPI wouldve 
paid on top of Mrs Cs work  benefits   and for longer, as it could pay for up to 24 months.
-Mrs and Mr C had savings theyd chosen to keep intact rather  than using them to reduce 
the mortgage at the start. By helping cover  mortgage costs,  the policy  benefit wouldve 
helped them keep  these  savings  intact,  or free to meeting other  liabilities at what would 
be a difficult time if Mrs C were to have become unemployed or too sick to work.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mrs C were unable  to do her own or any similar  job, and 
unable to do any work her experience, education  or training reasonably qualified her to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover given  Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances and the loss 
of income they could  suffer were Mrs C unable to work for a prolonged time due to 
unemployment or disability. Also, as the PPI protected payments on a mortgage  on 
Mrs and Mr Cs home,  I bear in mind  the potential  consequences  if Mrs and Mr C were to 
have become unable to make  the payments on loans secured against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs and Mr C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending and make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs and Mr C were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help with their mortgage costs  if Mrs C were  
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate cost.  Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mrs and Mr C wouldve taken the PPI 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much it might cost. 
Also, the PPI application form Mrs C signed  set out a monthly premium  and monthly  benefit  
for their anticipated monthly mortgage  payment, and explained these figures could  change  if 
the mortgage payment changed before the completion of mortgage.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs and Mr C agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr C, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mrs and Mr C all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN94797196Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and Mr Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs and Mr Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs and Mr C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr C have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs and Mr C? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs and Mr C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs and Mr C, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mrs and Mr C 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, they wouldve acted differently  or whether they wouldve taken the 
policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer, if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN94797197The evidence in this case suggests Mrs and Mr C had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if Mrs C were  
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, Mrs and Mrs C concluded  
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although Mrs and Mr C were given an indication of the cost and benefit  for their anticipated 
mortgage, the actual cost and benefit  were  each slightly lower than shown. So Halifax didnt 
tell Mrs and Mr C the exact premium when  they applied. But the cost difference  was small, 
and less than they were  shown. So, I dont think Mrs and Mr C wouldve have found the cost 
unacceptable if theyd  been given the actual figure at the point they agreed  to the policy.
As Ive noted, the PPI benefit was slightly lower than the figure on the application form Mrs C 
signed. But it was very similar and it seems the change  reflected a change in Mrs and Mr Cs 
monthly mortgage payment. Also, the benefit  wouldve more than met the monthly payment 
on Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage and paid a bit extra. Overall, I think  it unlikely Mrs and Mr Cs 
expectations about what the policy paid were significantly different to what it did pay.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought,  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs C wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim Mrs C be unable to do her own or 
any similar job, and be unable to do any paid work her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs and Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr C from taking the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mrs C was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mrs and Mr C should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen anything  to 
suggest they wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs C was in 
permanent employment  and although  she had a health issue, the policy  didnt exclude 
claims arising from pre-existing  medical  conditions. So, I think Mrs and Mr C still had some 
good reasons  to take the policy.
Ref: DRN94797198I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mrs and Mr C might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they wouldve  expected Mrs C to be able to make 
a claim without providing some evidence  to support it. And while this limitation might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs and Mr C from taking 
the policy, Mrs and Mr C, in their circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it.
If Mrs and Mr C had known they could only claim for disability if Mrs C were unable to do her 
own or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work her experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do, it might have  played into their thinking about what to do. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although, given their circumstances, on 
balance I think they wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs and Mr C that payment for any claim they made would be 
limited to 24 months. This may have  differed from what they expected and mightve hoped 
for. But Mrs Cs redundancy  entitlement was less than 12 months pay, its likely  her sick pay 
wouldve been at full pay for less than 12 months and in any case the PPI paid for longer. In 
those circumstances,  I consider it likely Mrs and Mr C wouldve still thought a policy that paid 
up to 24 monthly payments would help them if Mrs C were unable  to work for a prolonged 
period in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed multiple claims, could 
reduce Mrs and Mr Cs outgoings, help keep their savings intact or free for other  uses at a 
difficult and uncertain  time and help reduce the chances of their home being put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs and Mr C would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mrs C were  made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mrs and Mr C would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs and Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs and Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs and Mr C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN94797199to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  in DISP App 3 (which I dont 
consider I am), Im only doing  so because in this case  I dont consider it would represent fair 
compensation to put Mrs and Mr C in the position  they wouldve been  in had they not bought 
the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible they would not have taken the policy,  
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken it had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mrs and Mr C compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they wouldve been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs and Mr C think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs and Mr C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr C and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9479719