K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs L made a claim to RSA in January 2013  because of damp in a property she uses as a 
holiday home. She believed the damp  was caused by an escape of water  from drains  
surrounding the property. This was based on a surveyors  report  in December  2012  which  
said the damage was most likely caused  by an escape of water from an adjacent drain.
RSA agreed to pay for the repair of a chimney  which had started  to fall down due to damp. It 
also appointed  a drainage  surveyor to check for damage to the drains.  The report found  no 
damage to the propertys  drains but advised Mrs L to ask the local water company to check 
the land drainage which runs underneath the property. The water company inspected the 
drains. It found no damage  but said it would put in a liner as a precaution. Mrs L continued to 
pursue the water company  and RSA decided not to take any further action on the claim as it 
said it needed to identify the source of the damp.  Mrs L agreed there was no point  in 
repairing the property  until that was done.  
RSA appointed another firm of surveyors in February 2017 and it recommended that a damp 
report be prepared. The report of August 2017 identified  the main  cause of damp being the 
absence or poor performance of the damp  proof course/membrane. It also identified  general 
maintenance issues. In October 2017 RSA declined Mrs Ls claim because the evidence 
suggested the damp was caused by general  maintenance  or inherent issues and was not 
due to a leak from a drain.
After raising the matter  with RSA, Mrs L complained to this service.  Our investigator thought 
RSA were justified in declining the claim but thought it could have reached that decision 
sooner. He recommended that RSA provide Mrs L with £250 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by that delay. Mrs L and RSA disagreed and asked  for a 
final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L told RSA she believed the damage to her property was being caused by an escape of 
water from damaged water pipes and drains around her property that was discharging water 
into the surrounding soil. Her policy covers an escape of water and RSA initially believed 
cover was in place due to the leaking drains.  Both parties accepted there  was no point in 
starting any repairs on the property until the source of the leak was identified and repaired. 
Otherwise, the damp would continue to damage the property.
Whats not in doubt is that Mrs Ls property was severely affected  by damp  described as 
saturated in some places. The issue was what was causing the damp. Several reports  have 
been prepared  over the years, including  a December 2012 report  that pre-dated the claim, a 
drainage report  of November 2013  and two comprehensive reports of August 2014 and 
August 2017.  Other surveyors  have also commented on the state of the property. 
Ref: DRN90728712The report  of November  2013 only looked  at the drains Mrs L was responsible  for and found  
no problems with the internal pipes but recommended  that the local water company 
investigate its drains.  Some of the reports said there  had been  deterioration  over a long 
period of time. The report of August 2014  highlighted  several problems and considered  the 
damage likely to be caused by a number  of different issues which had led to rising  damp  and 
penetrative damp. The report  noted  the high water table, the location of the property,  at the 
bottom of sloping ground and close to the sea, and the condition  of the drains.  It also noted 
the poor quality  of the external rendering on the property and the likely absence of any damp 
proof course. Mrs L has told us that she didnt immediately share this report with RSA, and 
RSA has confirmed that it didnt receive it until 2017 when Mrs L gave it to the damp  
specialists it had asked  to look at the property. 
RSA have relied on the report  of August 2017  and said that, in light of this report and the 
other evidence it had seen, it was satisfied the damp wasnt caused by an escape  of water 
but was more likely due to poor maintenance. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that its more likely than not the damp  has been 
caused by general  maintenance issues and the lack of a damp proof  course/membrane. 
While some of the reports suggest  that poor drainage  could be a cause, none of them  clearly  
identify any specific leak or issue with the drains. Also, the water  company have carried out 
inspections of the drains and couldnt  find any problems. Mrs Ls policy doesnt cover wear  
and tear or deterioration of her property and Im satisfied  that, in light of the above,  RSA 
have taken a reasonable position  in declining  the claim. Theres  no specific  evidence of a 
leaking drain but there is clear evidence there are general maintenance issues  and issues 
with regard to the damp proof  course/membrane.  
While Im satisfied  RSA have acted fairly in declining the claim, I do think  its taken too long 
to reach  the decision it has. The water company said in mid-2014 that it couldnt see any 
damage after inspecting  the drains,  although  it decided to re-line them  as a precaution. 
Mrs L continued to pursue  the water company for a long time after this, but it didnt change 
its view. Very little changed between then and February 2017 when RSA decided  to appoint 
some damp specialists. In my view, it could have appointed those surveyors  much earlier.  
RSA have said the onus firmly rests with the consumer to prove  their claim. While I agree 
with that, the insurer is also required to handle  claims promptly  and fairly  and provide 
reasonable guidance to help a consumer make  a claim. I can see RSA were in regular and 
frequent contact  with Mrs L and I can also see that she kept it up to date with developments 
regarding the water company. In my view, RSA could and should  have  stepped in sooner.  
Had RSA sought  a damp report  in 2014  or 2015, I think  its more  likely than not it would have 
declined the claim  at that time. 
 
Mrs L has told us that, since RSA declined her claim in 2017, she has taken some  action  to 
damp proof her property and she is planning to do some more work.  Shes  also applied for 
planning permission  to clad the property  and replace the windows. Had RSA declined her 
claim earlier, Mrs L would have been  able to start this work  earlier  and its also possible  the 
damage wouldnt have  been quite so bad. I can also see that Mrs L has put a lot of her time 
and effort  into her claim and, had RSA declined her claim sooner, she could have  directed  
her time and effort differently. In light of this, I think RSA should  pay Mrs L £1,500 as I think 
this more accurately  reflects  the distress and inconvenience Mrs L experienced as a result  of 
the claims handling issues she experienced with RSA.
Ref: DRN90728713Both Mrs L and RSA had an opportunity to comment on this award.  Mrs L said the main 
problem was the delay and the fact RSA were  adamant it wouldnt allow her to do any 
repairs on the property  until it had made  a decision on the claim.  She also said the delay had 
cost her more money because the property hadnt been maintained for such a long period of 
time. From the evidence  Ive seen, whenever  RSA spoke to Mrs L about next steps, both 
parties agreed not to take any action  until the cause of the damp was identified.  So while I 
think RSA should  have declined the claim sooner, I dont think its fair to say it refused to 
allow Mrs L to do any repairs on the property.
RSA made  some general comments and maintained its view that the damp specialists 
couldnt have  been appointed any sooner. However, it agreed to pay Mrs L £1,500 and Im 
satisfied that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance  Plc to 
pay Mrs L £1,500  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9072871