K820x#14Complaint
Miss U complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) was too quick to 
terminate her hire agreement after she had missed  two payments. She wants her agreement  
reinstated.
Background
Miss U entered  into a three year hire agreement with VWFS in August  2017. She missed  the 
payments due in October and November 2018 after losing  her job. She then started a new 
job and called VWFS in December 2018  to make up the payments. She says that on the call 
she also changed her postal address and payment date to tie in with her new salary  
payments. She says her payments from January to April 2019 were  all made on time. 
In April 2019, Miss U says she discovered  that due to making  up one for the missed 
payments, her December  payment didnt go through  meaning she had two outstanding 
payments and not just the one she had thought. She says she intended to address  this 
situation but before she had a chance agents  came  to her house  to take the car. She 
contacted VWFS and says she was told her agreement had been terminated on 11 April.  
She says she wasnt given adequate warning of the termination before it happened  and had 
she received this she would have made the necessary arrangements to ensure the 
payments were made.
Miss U says she needs the car for her family commitments and work and that this issue has 
caused her a great deal of stress at an already challenging time. She says she never  meant 
not to pay but thought she had more time.  She says she has offered to settle the amount 
owed and also pay the remaining amount on the hire agreement  to ensure she keeps the car 
for the term of the agreement but her offers have been rejected. She says she is being 
asked to pay a large  amount and for the car to go to auction. 
VWFS says that Miss U called to say she had missed a payment  in March 2018  and made a 
manual payment to cover the arrears. In October 2018, a letter  was sent to Miss U saying 
she had arrears of £300. In November 2018, a further letter was sent saying the arrears  
were £600.  A reminder about the £600 arrears was sent in December  2018.  A £3 payment 
was then made and on 4 December and on 7 December a default notice was issued to 
Miss U for arrears  of £897.
VWFS says that Miss U called on 14 December to say she had lost her job and fallen behind 
with her payments  but she would pay £297  over the telephone and send a separate  payment 
of £300. Miss U also said her December  payment  may not go through and she would set up 
an arrangement to pay the rental.
In April 2019, VWFS sent Miss U a further notice saying her arrears  were £600 and the 
agreement was terminated on 11 April 2019.  VWFS says that it allowed Miss U four months  
to contact it before the agreement was terminated. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Miss U was given enough 
opportunity to bring her agreement up to date or make contact to discuss  alternative  
arrangements. He said VWFS kept Miss U informed  of the situation on her account. He said 
that VWFS said it was unable to reinstate  Miss Us agreement and he said they were under  
no obligation  to do so.
Ref: DRN98893892Miss U asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss U entered  into a hire agreement with VWFS  in August 2017  and in doing so she agreed 
to its terms and conditions. These  included making  the payments required under the 
agreement on time.  The terms  state  that the agreement may be terminated by giving  written  
notice if payments arent made by the time they are due.
Miss U missed a payment in March 2018,  however she then called VWFS and made  the 
payment manually, clearing the arrears.  Miss U then continued to make her payments on 
time until October 2018. In October  her payment was not made and Miss U was sent an 
arrears notice letter dated 11 October saying she was £300 in arrears. A further payment 
was missed in November and Miss U was sent a letter dated 7 November 2018  saying  her 
arrears were  £600. On 1 December, Miss U was sent a letter  again  setting out her arrears 
and saying that the account needed  to be brought up to date to prevent a default notice 
being issued which may result  in the termination  of the agreement.
Given the information provided to Miss U about her account, and what  would happen if her 
account wasnt brought up to date, I find that VWFS had given Miss U enough  opportunity to 
bring her account up to date or contact it to discuss her options  before further  action was 
taken.
Miss U made a payment of three pounds in early  December but as her account  hadnt been 
brought up to date I find it reasonable  that VWFS  took further action and issued her a default 
notice. The default  notice set out the arrears of £897  and said these needed  to be paid by 
26 December 2018. Miss U contacted VWFS on 14 December to say she had missed her 
payments due to being made  redundant but that she now had a new job. She said she 
would make a payment  of £297  and would make a further £300 payment by transfer. She 
said she was concerned her December  payment  may get rejected but said she would call 
about this.
Miss U didnt then call or pay the outstanding  arrears. Given the information she had been 
provided about the amounts outstanding and the need to bring  her account up to date to 
prevent a termination, I do not find that VWFS acted unfairly in April 2019, by terminating her 
agreement. At this time Miss Us account  had been  in arrears for a number of months and 
she hadnt been in contact to discuss how she would bring the account up to date. 
I note Miss Us comments about  when the notice of termination arrived and also the letter 
about the collection of the car but I find that VWFS  had done what was required of it before it 
took the decision to terminate Miss Us agreement. VWFS has said that the agreement 
cannot be reinstated and based  on the evidence I have seen I do not require it to do so. 
Overall, while  I understand this issue has caused  Miss U stress and that she has made 
offers to address the issue post termination, as I do not find that VWFS did anything  wrong, I 
do not uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN98893893My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9889389