K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a debt she owed 
them and about information they provided to credit  reference agencies.
background
Miss H took out a finance agreement with Creation  in June 2018 to pay for goods  she 
bought from a retailer.
When signing up to the agreement, Miss H gave her postal address and her bank account 
details and agreed to set up a direct debit to make the regular payments.
Miss H says Creation set up the account against  the wrong postal address. She says this led 
to the direct  debit failing.  She says she didnt  know about this until she was contacted by a 
debt collection agency in January 2019.
Miss H has now paid off the loan.  But shes unhappy  Creation have reported her missed 
payments to credit reference agencies. She says this has affected  her credit rating and led 
to other  businesses suspending her accounts.
Shes also unhappy that Creation used  the debt collection agency  to try to retrieve  the 
money.
Miss H complained to Creation. When they didnt uphold her complaint, she brought it to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Creation had done  anything wrong. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold it and Ill explain 
why.
The direct debit Miss H originally set up to make the payments didnt fail because  she 
changed address.  Creation have provided evidence they received an instruction from 
Miss Hs bank that the direct debit was cancelled   by Miss H. This meant they couldnt  
collect the scheduled payments.
If Miss H didnt  instruct her bank to cancel  the direct debit, then it appears theyve made  an 
error and she can make  a complaint against them. But I cant hold Creation responsible  for 
any error Miss Hs bank may have made.
Miss Hs credit agreement requires her to notify Creation if she moves  address  so that they 
can contact her if they need  to. She didnt  do so. 
Creation have provided evidence that they sent several letters  to the address Miss H 
provided and made several phone calls to the number shed given them.  They were hoping  
to inform her she wasnt making the payments. They had no response to the letters, no 
returned mail and no answer or reply to their phone calls.
Ref: DRN94089412Miss H gave her new address as the delivery  address for the goods  she bought from the 
retailer. Im satisfied, on that basis, she likely knew when signing the credit agreement   or 
very soon  after that  that she was moving. And it would  or should have occurred to her 
when she gave the delivery address that shed given a different address in the credit 
agreement.
Miss H says the first she knew about her direct  debit payments failing was when she was 
contacted by the debt collection agency  several months later.  I assume she receives bank 
statements and/or  can check her account  on-line.  Its not unreasonable  to say that she 
should have noticed the missed direct debit  payments.
Miss H has objected to Creation referring her debt to the debt collection agency to trace  her 
on Creations behalf. But Creation had a customer who owed  them money who didnt appear 
to be at the address shed given them and wasnt answering calls made to the number shed 
given them. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable  for them  to ask for 
assistance from a specialist agency.
After the agency  contacted Miss H, Creation recalled the account  from the agency  and dealt 
with the matter themselves  which avoided further  costs for Miss H. And meant  she didnt 
have to deal with the agency for any longer  than was necessary.
Miss H did miss the payments Creation reported  to the credit  reference agencies. Creation  
are required  to provide  accurate credit  reference  information. Im satisfied  the missed  
payments werent  due to any error on Creations part. And they are an accurate reflection of 
Miss Hs creditworthiness.  I cant say its unfair  or unreasonable for Creation to report  this 
information  or to decide not to remove it now.
Miss H has been represented  in this complaint by a friend. Hes said weve not conducted  a 
proper investigation  because we havent  checked that the signature  on the credit agreement  
is Miss Hs. 
I should be absolutely  clear that Ive taken that into account in making my decision. When 
Miss H made her complaint to us, she said that shed taken out the agreement with Creation  
and set up a direct debit  - which  she said had failed because of the change of address. 
Shes taken  the goods provided by the retailer and shes now settled the debt. 
Im satisfied beyond any doubt at all that Miss H took out the agreement  and owed the 
money to Creation. And there was absolutely no reason at all for us to question  the signature  
on the credit  agreement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408941