K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as Brighthouse) hasnt been fair 
in the way its dealt with a faulty vacuum  cleaner she bought.
background
In late 2016 Mrs D bought a vacuum  cleaner using a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Brighthouse. She was to pay £2.50 a week for two years before the vacuum  was hers.  The 
agreement included a warranty.  This meant that, if the vacuum broke  down whilst  Mrs D was 
still paying for it, Brighthouse would arrange  for it be fixed  or replaced with a vacuum of 
similar age and condition. She was also entitled to a temporary  replacement  if her own 
vacuum couldnt be repaired straight away.
The vacuum broke down  in about  August 2018. An engineer said it couldnt  be repaired at 
Mrs Ds home, and Brighthouse sent a temporary replacement whist  her own vacuum was 
being repaired. The first replacement was a model Mrs D couldnt  use, and the second had 
no battery, and Mrs D had to buy one. Brighthouse  agreed to refund the cost of this and pay 
£50 compensation.  
Mrs Ds own vacuum  (or a similar one) was returned  in September,  but it didnt work. It took 
until December 2017 for this to be sorted  out. In the meantime  Mrs D bought a second 
vacuum for about  £80.
Mrs D had also, by this time, brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator thought her complaint should  be upheld.  He pointed out that Mrs D has a 
medical condition  which makes it important for her to keep her home dust free, and said he 
thought Brighthouse knew about this by April 2018   so even before she had problems with 
the vacuum. He didnt  think Brighthouse had done enough to help Mrs D, and had left her 
without a fully functioning vacuum for much  of the time between August and December 2018 
 about five months. He thought Brighthouse  should  refund Mrs D the cost of the vacuum  
she bought plus some interest.  He also suggested  that, given the poor service  provided, 
Brighthouse should pay an additional £400 compensation.
Mrs D then told us that when the repaired  vacuum  was returned in early December it had 
missing parts and didnt  work. Although Brighthouse sorted that out relatively quickly, our 
investigator thought  it warranted an extra £50 compensation.
Brighthouse objects.  In summary, it told our investigator that all the repairs had been  carried 
out under  the warranty, rather than under a separate insurance  policy  Mrs D agreed to buy 
when she got the vacuum.  And it said its engineers found no fault with the vacuum when it 
was examined in August/September. It sent Mrs D cheques for a total value  of £170 in mid 
November (that was for the battery  and £50 compensation) and didnt think  it should  pay 
more. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96395352Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  did, for much  the 
same reasons.
Mrs D has a condition that means  its important  for her to keep her home dust free. From 
Brighthouses own notes  I can see it was aware  Mrs D was ill  and in and out of hospital  
by April 2018 at the latest.  It marked her as being vulnerable on its records.  
Brighthouse says it didnt know Mrs Ds exact condition until much later. I dont think  that 
makes a difference to my decision. By the time Mrs D reported  her vacuum as broken, 
Brighthouse was already  aware that Mrs D had serious health problems. It also knew she 
was managing on a limited budget,  because  its own notes reflect  this. I think these facts 
should have prompted Brighthouse to take extra care when responding to Mrs D, and make 
every effort to sort out the problem as soon as possible. I havent seen that it did that. 
Brighthouse has instead made  a series of errors that left Mrs D out of pocket on more than 
one occasion  and without a working vacuum  for months. She spent a lot of time trying  to get 
Brighthouse to sort out what should have  been a straightforward issue,  and shes  explained  
the worry this has caused.  
Brighthouse, when  explaining why it didnt want  to pay any compensation, told us Mrs Ds 
vacuum didnt have a fault, when its own records show it needed a replacement  motor. The 
supporting evidence Brighthouse sent us is dated three or four months  after the initial  
problem, so I dont  think its relevant. Brighthouse  also says Mrs D delayed things by 
insisting she should  be given a brand new vacuum as a replacement. I havent seen that 
reflected in the records Brighthouse sent us, so Im not giving much  weight to this. 
Brighthouse also says Mrs D stopped making  payment so wasnt  eligible for help under the 
warranty for at least some  of the time. Mrs D did withhold payment for a short period of time 
and says this is because she was paying for something that didnt work. She paid the 
account up to date as soon as she got a replacement  vacuum.  I understand why Mrs D 
might have felt compelled to do this, although I wouldnt recommend it as a way of getting  a 
company to act. 
Finally Brighthouse  says its spoken to the local store that dealt with Mrs D and doesnt  think 
her testimony is plausible. Its given no reasons for this or any evidence  to support this  so 
Im attaching no weight  to this comment.
I understand Mrs D now has a vacuum  that works, and Im pleased  Brighthouse  has finally 
sorted things out for her. However, I see even  on the last occasion  when wed already 
written to Brighthouse about  its failings towards  Mrs D  it still didnt take enough care to 
ensure she got a working vacuum without her having to contact it again.
Overall I think  the recommended compensation of £450 is fair, and reflects the poor service 
offered to Mrs D.
Mrs D told us that shed  had to buy a second  vacuum in November as shed been without 
one for so long. I think that was reasonable given by then she probably didnt know  if shed 
get her original vacuum back. I say that because there was no mention  of this in 
Brighthouses final response letter that it sent in early November. So I think it fair 
Brighthouse refund the cost of this (£80) plus interest as compensation for the fact that Mrs 
D is out of pocket by this amount. 
Ref: DRN96395353Mrs D also pointed out that the replacement  vacuum she now has, has no warranty.  So 
shes worried it might  break down. I cant make Brighthouse give her a warranty for the 
replacement vacuum, as her old one only ran whilst she was still paying her credit 
agreement (and thats now finished). And the warranty  only said shed get a replacement  of 
similar age and condition as the old vacuum  before it broke down. But if there  is an issue 
with the replacement in the next few months  Mrs D would likely be able to complain about 
that, as Id expect  Brighthouse to provide a replacement that was of satisfactory quality.  I do 
hope this doesnt happen. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
I order Caversham Finance Limited to:
Refund Mrs D £80 for the replacement vacuum, and add interest*  at 8% simple  from 
the date she bought  the vacuum to the date of refund.
Pay £450 compensation for the way its dealt with Mrs Ds problems.
* Caversham  Finance  Limited may need  to deduct tax from this interest  to comply with 
HMRC regulations. Mrs D may be able to claim that tax back. Caversham must give Mrs D a 
statement of tax deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9639535