K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont  refund a cash  withdrawal.
what happened
On 17 December 2018, Mr N made  a £90 withdrawal at an ATM. He says as soon as his 
card came out, he took it and walked away, and didnt wait for the cash to come out. He 
doesnt remember why he did that. He says he didnt notice any issues with the machine.
Around half an hour later, Mr N realised hed forgotten the cash and reported  the matter  to 
Nationwide. He says he went back to the cash machine  but there were already other people 
using it.
Nationwide found  the machine was working  and had not made an error.  They  asked Mr N for 
more evidence, such as his receipt or a witness statement from the ATM  owner to show 
something was wrong. It wasnt possible for him to get that since he didnt get a receipt and 
the bank who owned the ATM werent  open yet at the time of his withdrawal. Nationwide  
didnt refund the £90.
Mr N came to our service. Our investigator  looked  into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. He looked at the technical  evidence  and said the ATM did not make 
an error, so Nationwide didnt have to refund the £90. He didnt think  it was unreasonable  for 
Nationwide to ask Mr N for further  evidence.
Mr N didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Generally speaking, one might  get a refund for a cash withdrawal if, for instance, the 
machine was not working and so the cash didnt come out.
Based on the technical evidence from the withdrawal,  I can see the ATM was working  and 
Mr Ns cash was dispensed.  Mr N said he didnt notice it having any issues either.
Unfortunately, Mr N left his cash behind at the machine, and only realised too late. I do 
sympathise with Mr N, as we all make mistakes  and these things happen sometimes. It 
seems likely that a third party took his money  after he left it behind.
I think that, in this particular situation, the responsibility fell on Mr N to make sure he took his 
cash, and not Nationwide.  I dont  see that Nationwide were  liable for Mr N forgetting his cash 
here. Thats not an easy message for me to give, or for Mr N to receive,  but I dont see a fair 
reason to conclude  that this was Nationwides fault.
Ref: DRN95469272I appreciate why it would  be frustrating for Mr N to be asked for evidence he couldnt get. But 
at the time they asked for it, Nationwide wouldnt have known whether he could get it or not. 
And they were only trying to help Mr N by telling him what might  support his case.
I also appreciate why Mr N would like the CCTV footage. The ATM owner doesnt have the 
footage. And I cant see that it wouldve made  a difference  to the outcome of this complaint, 
if the fact remains that Mr N forgot to wait for the cash and walked away.
So while I understand that Mr N has lost out, it wasnt Nationwides  or the cash  machines 
error. I have  not found that Nationwide  are at fault or otherwise liable for the withdrawal.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9546927