K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that she received unsuitable  advice from Legal  & General Partnership 
Services Limited to re-mortgage her property.
background 
L&G advised  Mrs T to re-mortgage in 2007.  She had an interest  only mortgage of around  
£45,000 on a variable interest rate of 5.79% at the time of the advice.  She also had an 
outstanding credit card balance of £1,620. The fact find records  that she wanted  to raise 
£3,500 for home improvements, and consolidate  her credit card debt into the mortgage.
At the time of the advice  Mrs T was in her early 40's, divorced and with one dependent  
child.  She had a monthly income of £1,430. And the fact find records  that her disposable 
income  was around  £210.
L&G advised her to take out an interest  only mortgage of approximately £59,000 over 
an 18 year term at a rate of 5.75% fixed for two years.  She paid various fees and also 
had to pay an early repayment charge ("ERC") on her existing mortgage of around 
£1,400.
Mrs T was also advised to take out a single  premium PPI policy,  and pay for a will pack, 
both of which were added to the mortgage.
Mrs T's representative complained to L&G in 2016. It said that the advice was 
unsuitable  and that the inclusion of the PPI and the will in the sale adversely 
affected the advice.
L&G responded  to the complaint. It said in particular:
 It had previously looked into the sale of her single premium protection  policy  in 
July 2012. And it had made  Mrs T an offer, which  she had accepted. So it would 
not be looking into that issue again;
 Mrs T had spoken to L&G's  adviser  in October  2007. She wanted to raise  
additional capital for home improvements and also wanted  to fix her interest 
rate. L&G's adviser had recommended a new fixed rate mortgage. Mrs T also 
raised  enough  capital to consolidate  her credit  card and carry out the home  
improvement s she wanted to do;
 The adviser had looked at staying with Mrs T's existing lender but they would 
only advance a mortgage on a variable rate. Other lenders  were  discounted  
because Mrs T needed to include tax credits as part of her income;
 While  Mrs T could have  taken out a personal loan for the £3,500 she wanted to 
raise  for home improvements it didn't  believe that this would have been  affordable 
for Mrs T;
 It felt that it was necessary  for Mrs T to have consolidated her credit card debts 
into the mortgage in order to afford to raise the additional  capital she wanted;
 While  it felt that Mrs T needed a will to ensure  her estate was settled in 
accordance  with her wishes, it had no evidence to show it was right for her to 
fund the cost of the will through  her mortgage. So it offered to refund the 
Ref: DRN97697802mortgage interest she would pay over the term of the mortgage, amounting  to 
£46.92;
 It also offered Mrs T £150 in recognition of the inconvenience  she'd been caused.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that L&G had dealt  fairly with Mrs T's complaint and that its offer of 
£196.92 was fair and reasonable in relation  to the funding  of the will through the 
mortgage.  But Mrs T's representative  does not agree and so the complaint was referred 
to me for a final decision.
my provisional  decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 12 June 2019. I said, in summary:
 There were  two elements of the recommendation that L&G has already accepted 
weren't suitable. The sale of PPI was dealt  with in 2012, so I wouldnt deal with that 
here. And L&G had accepted that it was wrong to add the fee for the will to the 
mortgage but maintained it acted reasonably in arranging  it;
 I'd considered what  L&G had to say in relation to the will. And I agreed that it 
wasn't  unreasonable to advise  Mrs T to make a will at that time, as she had a 
dependent child and no current will. But I also agreed that it wasn't appropriate 
to add the cost of the wills package  to the mortgage. I was provisionally 
persuaded that L&G's suggested redress  on this issue  was fair;
 On the issue of whether the advice to re-mortgage  was suitable,  I was minded to 
find that it was not, and I explained why Id reached this decision;
 It was not disputed that Mrs T wanted to raise £3,500 for home improvements. 
And the fact find recorded that she also wanted to consolidate  the credit  card 
balance into the mortgage in order to have the security of one manageable 
payment. But this came  at a high price - in order to redeem  her existing  mortgage  
Mrs T had to pay an ERC  of around  £1,400. In addition,  Mrs T had to pay the 
various fees and charges associated with the re-mortgage.  Looking at the 
completion statement supplied by L&G, it seemed that these fees and charges  
came to over £2,800. So in order to borrow slightly over £5,000  Mrs T paid out 
over £4,000  in costs.  I was minded to find that the amount of the fees and 
charges compared to the amount  she wanted to raise was disproportionate, 
making the advice  unsuitable;
 Looking at the mortgage  record of suitability, there  was no evidence that the 
adviser  considered  alternative means  by which Mrs T could have raised the 
£3,500. But I was minded  to find that other options would have been  available to 
Mrs T at the time, which would have  been  less costly;
 I noted that L&G had argued  that Mrs T wouldn't have been able to afford  to service 
loan repayments,  as her true disposable income was much  lower than the amount 
shown in the fact find. As evidence, it pointed to Mrs T's bank statement from 2007 
which showed an amount of around £100 left at the end of one month. But, although 
I'd considered  what L&G had to say, I didn't agree that the amount  left at the end of 
one month could be taken as an accurate indication of her true disposable income. 
L&G's representative made his recommendations on the strength of the fact find that 
was completed at the time, and that recorded her disposable income as around £210 
a month after paying her mortgage.  And that was the basis  on which I had to judge 
the suitability of his advice. I also commented the very nature of disposable income is 
that it is money available to be spent after all the household basics  had been paid 
Ref: DRN97697803out. The fact that Mrs T spent some of her disposable income in the month in 
question didnt mean it shouldn't be classed as disposable;
 I had no way of knowing for sure what Mrs T would have  done  with her credit card 
balance  if she hadn't  been advised to re-mortgage. On balance I thought it was 
most likely she would have  taken steps to pay it off over the medium term.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs Ts representative and L&G have  responded to my provisional  decision, but neither 
has anything to add. As such, Ive not been  persuaded  to change my provisional decision 
and so I confirm it here.
fair redress
It is impossible to put Mrs T back in the exact  position she would have been in had this re-
mortgage not taken place,  but Im satisfied  this redress will be as close as we can get. I order  
L&G to:
 refund all charges,  fees and commissions associated with the re-mortgage in 2007 
(other than those  relating  to the PPI premium  and the wills package fee);
 if Mrs T wishes part or the entire amount that results from the above calculations  to 
be paid off the outstanding capital of her mortgage  loan, L&G should pay any early  
repayment charges  incurred;
 refund the mortgage interest accrued on the above charges, fees and commissions 
to the date of settlement calculated at the interest rates applicable to the mortgage;
 in accordance with its offer, refund the mortgage interest on the wills package fee for 
the duration of the mortgage  term, calculated  at the fixed rate followed by the SVR;
 calculate redress for the inappropriate debt consolidation as follows:
1) calculate the amount Mrs T has paid to service the consolidated debt each  
month as part of her mortgage  payments;
2) calculate the amount of the consolidated debt still outstanding on her 
mortgage balance;
3) calculate the amount it would have cost to pay off the debt had it not 
been consolidated, assuming that the payment  amounts and interest  
rates shown in the client review stayed the same;
Add together  the first two figures, deduct  the third and pay the result as a lump sum 
to Mrs T;
 pay Mrs T £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN97697804my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Legal & General Partnership  Services  
Limited to pay fair redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9769780