K820x#14The complaint  
Mr B complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by ESN CAR SALES LIMITED 
(ESN) and its decision to lend to him.
Mr B has been represented  by Mrs B, his partner, throughout his complaint. Ive referred  to 
both Mr and Mrs B throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr B acquired a used  car under a 12 month hire purchase agreement with ESN on 17 July 
2017. The car was 13 years  old and had covered around 72,000  miles when it was acquired. 
The car cost around  £1,750.
In October  2017, Mr B complained that the car wouldnt  start.  The battery was replaced by 
ESN at no cost to Mr B and this seemed to rectify the issue. In November 2017, a wiring 
problem with a fuel injector was identified. This left the battery without any power. Mr B paid 
£45 for this issue to be repaired.
In July 2018, Mr B complained to ESN as he says the car stopped working. Mr B obtained a 
diagnostic report which confirmed a screw  had been left inside the ignition relay. This was 
repaired at a garage at a cost of £22.69. Mr B said the screw was in the ignition relay from the 
point the car was supplied to him - or that it was put inside the ignition relay when the car was 
repaired in October 2017.  In October  2018,  Mr B said the car stopped working  due to the fuel 
injectors. He said he stopped  using the car at this point and he sold the car in June 2019.
Mrs B complained to ESN, on behalf of Mr B, about  the quality of the car it supplied,  the 
length of the warranty period and the repayments owed under the agreement.  Mrs B also 
said ESN used her income when  making  its decision to lend. She says the agreement 
should be in her name and not Mr Bs as he was unemployed and didnt have an income. 
She didnt  think ESN had carried out sufficient lending checks.
ESN looked into Mr Bs complaint and said the issue with the screw in the ignition relay  wasnt  
brought to its attention until July 2018.  It didnt think the screw was there at the point it 
supplied the car and it didnt think it was placed  there by its agent  after repairs were carried  
out in October  2017. It accepted the warranty was for 12 months, but said the warranty 
provider was particular  about what repairs it would complete.  It said in good  faith,  it would pay 
for repairs to any faults which occurred  within  the first three months of the car being  supplied. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred  his complaint to our service and said he wanted ESN to 
cover the cost of repairs and the diagnostic costs.  He also wanted compensation for the time 
he spent trying to contact ESN after it refused to repair his car and the inconvenience of 
having to repair the car.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point it was supplied. She also thought  the checks ESN had carried out when it 
considered if the agreement  was affordable for Mr B, were sufficient. She didnt  recommend  
ESN did anything further. 
Mrs B disagreed. She:
questioned why the battery was replaced before the car was supplied  and then three  
months after. 
Ref: DRN96191502accepted there wasnt any evidence  to confirm who placed  the screw  in the ignition relay 
switch. But she said neither her nor Mr B placed  it. She said the screw could only have 
been placed there before  the car was supplied, or when it was taken away for repairs  by 
an agent of ESN. 
She also said:
the warranty  was valid for 12 months, but ESN had told her it was only valid for three 
months. And she said the cost of repairs should be covered by the warranty.
the car radio was missing and ESN had agreed to reduce  the cost of the car, but didnt 
do this.
Mr B had to pay £25 to obtain  documentation in order  to tax the car. 
ESN didnt  provide  referral rights to our service when it investigated Mr Bs complaint. 
ESN shouldnt  have lent to Mr B as he was unemployed and he didnt have an income.
ESN charged Mr B more than it was entitled  to under the agreement.
As Mr B remains unhappy,  the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole  file and acknowledge  that Mr and Mrs B have raised a number 
of different  complaint points. Ive concentrated  on what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think  about it  but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Referral to our service
When ESN responded  to Mr Bs complaint, it didnt provide Mr B with his right to refer his 
complaint to our service. But its not our role to fine or punish businesses  for regulatory 
breaches. In this case, Ive considered whether ESN has done anything  wrong  which has 
caused Mr B a loss. Mr B was still able to refer his complaint to our service. So I cant see 
that ESNs failure  to provide Mr B with referral rights  has caused him a loss.
Quality of goods  supplied under the agreement
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. ESN is the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement and so is responsible for dealing  with a complaint about its quality. 
Ref: DRN96191503The Consumer Rights Act 2015  covers  hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase  
agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory  
quality. In Mr Bs case, the car he acquired  was used  so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. Having said that, the cars  condition at the point of 
supply, should  have met the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
given its age, mileage  and price.
In this case, there was a fault with the battery  around three  months after Mr B acquired  the car. 
The battery was replaced under the warranty and this rectified the fault. Mrs B says the battery  
was also replaced  before the car was supplied to Mr B. She questioned why the battery needed 
to be replaced in October 2017, given that it had also been  replaced in July 2017.
Ive seen a copy  of the RAC approved preparation standard checklist.  This was completed  
by ESN before the car was supplied to Mr B. The checklist states,  replaced  battery  (R). But 
a battery can require replacement for a number of reasons. For example, a light in the car 
being left on overnight can cause the battery to require replacement.  In this instance, its 
unclear why the battery needed  to be replaced or what caused  it to fail. A battery  is 
considered a wear  and tear item and will be expected to be replaced within  the lifetime of the 
car. So, given the age, mileage and price of the car at the time the car was supplied,  I dont  
think the replacement  of the battery  in October  2017 made  the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Following this, in November 2017, a mechanic was called  out by Mr B to inspect the car. The 
mechanic said there was a Wiring problem on fuel injector. Battery  no power at all. This 
was repaired by the mechanic at a cost of £45 to Mr B. No further information has been 
supplied by the mechanic about the fuel injector or the repair  that was carried out. And a fuel 
injector is also a wear and tear item. So given the cars condition at the point of supply, I 
dont think a repair to the fuel injector  made  the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
In July 2018, Mr B complained about  a screw being  left inside the car ignition relay. This was 
following a mechanic carrying out an inspection.  The mechanic said, The car ignition relay  
was the problem because someone  put a screw inside the relay which  is a very dangerous 
thing to do. I have  shown  the customer where  the problem was . The mechanic confirmed 
the fault was fixed and said the importance of the fault was low.
I appreciate a mechanic said a screw was found inside the ignition relay  in July 2018. But 
Ive seen a copy  of the picture showing where  the screw was placed. The screw isnt in the 
ignition relay.  The screw appears  to have been inserted in place of a fuse to allow an 
electrical current to pass through. Ive also been  provided with an invoice which  shows the 
car was taken to a manufacturer  owned dealership in July 2018  and the N/Stock  Fuse was 
replaced. This supports that the screw wasnt in the ignition relay and was instead  inserted in 
place of a fuse.  
Mr B says the screw  was left in the car by ESN before the car was supplied  to him. Or that it 
was put inside the ignition relay  when the car was repaired in October  2017.  However  the 
RAC approved preparation standard checklist confirms that the car starts correctly. I can 
also see that an MOT was carried out in January 2017 and in July 2017. The car only 
appears to have travelled three  miles  between the two MOTs.  And both MOTs mention no 
advisories relating to the operation of the car. 
Ref: DRN96191504In addition, when  Mr B complained about  the battery in October 2017, this repair was 
undertaken by an agent of ESN and the car was collected from Mr B and taken to a garage 
for repairs. Ive seen a statement from the garage  whove said,  the customer  said it wouldnt 
start, when  we arrived at the customers property, we had to jump start it. We then drove it 
back to the garage  where we replaced the battery  and then returned  it back  to the customers 
property. We never undertook any other  work on the vehicle as the only problem that was 
relayed to us was the problem with the car not starting, by replacing the battery this rectified 
the problem we were  called  out to deal with.  On balance, I dont think  its likely this garage 
purposely placed a screw in the ignition relay or in place of the fuse. 
I acknowledge the strength  of Mr and Mrs Bs feelings about this and their comments  about 
the potential impact this could have had. But theres insufficient evidence to suggest that, on 
balance, the screw was there at the point of supply  or when it was repaired in October  2017. 
In addition, at the time the screw was found,  Mr B had been  able to travel more  than 5,000  
miles in the car. Its unlikely he would have been  able to travel 5,000  miles if there  was a 
screw in the ignition relay  like the mechanic suggested. 
Mr B says there were  further problems with the fuel injectors in October  2018.  But Ive seen 
no information to support  this. As Mr B says the car was sold in June 2019, no further 
evidence has been provided to show further faults with the car. So I havent considered  the 
faults Mr B has complained about in October 2018.
Overall, I dont  think the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied  to Mr B, 
given its age and mileage and the price Mr B paid for it. So it follows  that I dont require ESN 
to take any action in relation to the quality of the car.
Car radio
Mrs B says the car didnt have a radio.  She says ESN agreed  to deduct the cost of replacing 
the radio off the overall amount due under  the agreement. But I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest this. The pre-delivery report, carried out before  the car was supplied, confirms  
there is no radio front. And a collection letter,  which Mr B has signed to say he is happy 
with the condition of the car, has a handwritten  note on it stating, radio  front needs 
replacing. But this could  simply be highlighting that the radio  front needs replacing,  rather  
than ESN agreeing  to arrange to replace the radio.  Its unclear what was agreed  here.  
Mrs B later said the repayments  under the agreement were reduced to £130.76 for twelve 
months because the radio front wasnt replaced. But I cant see that either Mr or Mrs B 
complained about the radio  to ESN. And Mrs B didnt mention  the agreed deduction when 
she complained  about the number of repayments  made under the agreement. I also havent  
seen any evidence to confirm whether there  was an agreement  between Mr B and ESN, to 
replace or make a deduction for the cost of the radio at the point the car was supplied.  So I 
dont think ESN needs to reimburse the cost of replacing the radio.  
Amount to be repaid  under the agreement
The checklist provided by ESN shows that repayments of £32.70  per week  /£130.76 per 
month were to be repaid  over 12 months.  The repayment mandate  provided confirms 
£130.76 per month is to be repaid  over 12 months.  The credit agreement  also states 
£130.76 is to be repaid  over 12 months.  And it states, The named vehicle above will be 
owned by ESN Car Sales Limited  until either  12 monthly instalments or 52 weeks  payments 
have been made in full. 
Ref: DRN96191505In this case, the total cost of the car was £1,750 and this is the price Mr B agreed to pay to 
acquire the car. He paid a deposit of £50 when he acquired the car, leaving a remaining 
amount of £1,700, which he needed to pay to become the owner of the car. Having reviewed 
the finance agreement,  it seems ESN made an error when it calculated the monthly  
repayments due under the agreement. I say this because 52 repayments  of £32.70 equals  
£1,700.40. This is around the amount Mr B was expecting to pay to own the car. So this 
calculation appeared to be in line with what Mr B was expecting  to pay. But when ESN 
calculated the monthly  repayments, it seems it calculated this with the assumption  that there 
are only four weeks in each month  of the year  a total of 48  which is incorrect  as there are 
around 52 weeks in a year. So ESN didnt account  for the additional  four weeks.  
In light of this, I agree  there has been an error  by ESN when  it calculated  the monthly  
repayments. ESN also told our service the calculation was incorrect due to human error. 
But as Mr B had already  agreed to pay a total of £1,750 for the car and he would have been 
expecting to pay this amount  to own the car, I think ESN was entitled to repayments  totalling 
£1,750. ESN have confirmed the amount has been  paid in full.
Mrs B has mentioned that Mr B suffered financial hardship as a result of ESN telling  him a 
further payment  was required after 12 monthly repayments had been made. She later said it 
was money earmarked to pay other debt. But shes also accepted that £1,750  was the price  
to be paid for the car. So whilst I sympathise with Mrs B for the position she says Mr B found 
himself in, he was aware payments totalling  £1,750  were required under the agreement. I 
havent been provided with any information to show that Mr B was in financial hardship at the 
time, or that he complained to ESN about financial  hardship at the time. So I dont think ESN 
need to do anything further  here.
Change of ownership documentation
Mrs B says ESN changed the ownership  of the car to another  company and so Mr B had to 
pay £25 to obtain a document to prove  his ownership of the car. She says this was to allow 
the car to be taxed.  ESN has said it was unaware  of this and confirmed it still has a copy  of 
the documentation. Whilst I can appreciate this must have been inconvenient for Mr B, I 
cant see that he contacted ESN about  this so it could provide him with this documentation.  
So I dont  require ESN to pay for the cost of the documentation Mr B obtained.
Warranty
Mrs B says the warranty ESN provided Mr B should cover the cost of the repairs  to the car. 
Ive seen a copy  of the warranty which confirms  that the items Mr B is claiming for under the 
warranty are excluded.  
It states, Electricsbatteries, fuses  wiring terminals and remaking of disturbed electrical 
connections are not included  under the warranty. And it states, General exclusions any 
failure of parts which  have reached  the end of their normal working lives because of age or 
mileage (as confirmed by the independent  assessment). It also confirms that diagnostic 
costs arent  included under the warranty. So I dont  require ESN to reimburse Mr B for any of 
the repair costs  he incurred, as these costs  are excluded under the warranty and I dont  think 
these issues made  the car of unsatisfactory quality.  
Ref: DRN96191506Decision to lend
We explain how we handle complaints about  irresponsible and unaffordable lending  on our 
website. Ive used  this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
ESN needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means  is 
that ESN needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was affordable for Mr B before providing  it. 
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers  income  was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired  credit history  suggested  the 
lender needed to know more about  a prospective borrowers ability  to repay.  Ive carefully  
thought about what this means for Mr Bs case.
In this case, ESN hasnt  provided us with any information to demonstrate  what  lending 
checks, if any, were  carried  out. So I dont know what information ESN relied on to make its 
lending decision.
Ive thought about what a proportionate check could  look like considering the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, the agreement  was for 52 weeks, it had no interest payable over the 
term, the purpose of the lending was for an asset  and the repayments under the agreement 
were £32.70 each  week.  Having  thought about these factors,  whilst I would have expected 
ESN to carry out some checks, I wouldnt expect it to obtain details of Mr Bs complete 
financial circumstances at the time.
Given that ESN hasnt provided  us with any information to support what checks  it carried out, I 
cant say it carried out a proportionate  check when making its lending decision. That said, Im 
still required  to look at whether it is more likely  than not, that a proportionate check would have 
told ESN that Mr B wouldve been  unable to sustainably make the payments to this agreement.
Mrs B says that Mr B took her payslips  to evidence that the agreement would be affordable.  
And she says this was on the understanding the agreement would be in her name. But the 
agreement is in Mr Bs name.  ESN has told us the lending was agreed based on the 
information provided to it by Mr B. It hasnt confirmed what  this information was but has 
confirmed Mr B provided his bank  details for the repayments. But this doesnt demonstrate 
an income. And apart  from Mrs Bs admission that her payslips were  provided to ESN,  there  
isnt any evidence to suggest that ESN relied  on Mrs Bs payslips when making its lending 
decision. I havent seen any documentation  from either ESN or Mrs B to demonstrate  what 
evidence of income was used  to support the application. So I havent  considered  this.
Mrs B also says Mr B was unemployed at the time the agreement was entered  into and so 
he couldnt afford the repayments. Our service asked Mrs B to provide us with some 
information to show Mr B was unemployed. Mrs B said she couldnt provide  this as Mr B 
wasnt working and he didnt apply for any benefits.  She said she was the sole earner in the 
household. She provided us with a copy of a screen shot showing Mr B hadnt made any 
national insurance  contributions during  2017-2018.  She also provided a copy of a screen  
shot showing there was a problem with the HMRC website. This meant it couldnt show what 
Mr Bs taxable income was between 6 April 2017  to 5 April 2018.
Ref: DRN96191507Whilst I can appreciate Mrs B is suggesting  the lack of national  insurance contributions  
shows that Mr B didnt have an income, this isnt enough to satisfy me that Mr B didnt have 
an income. I say this because national insurance contributions are payable depending  on the 
amount of income  an individual earns.  So if an individual  doesnt  earn above  the minimum 
threshold, they wont be required  to pay national insurance contributions. There  may also be 
other circumstances  in which an individual wouldnt be expected to make contributions  but 
these dont appear to apply  here.  Here the information supplied  by Mrs B doesnt confirm  
that Mr B didnt have  an income below the minimum threshold applied  at the time, or that he 
wasnt in receipt of any benefits.  So I cant assume  that Mr B didnt have an income. In 
addition, Mrs B hasnt provided  any further  information to demonstrate what  Mr Bs financial 
position was at the time. 
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, whilst  I dont think that ESNs checks  
before entering  into this agreement with Mr B went far enough, I havent been  provided with 
enough information to demonstrate what Mr Bs financial  circumstances were  at the time. So 
I cant be satisfied that ESN wouldnt have still lent to Mr B, had it carried out further  checks. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9619150