K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly  settled a claim in relation to a 
collision with another car that wasnt his fault.
background
In January 2018 Mr P was driving  and a collision  took place with another  vehicle. Mr P 
describes the third party as driving aggressively, then pulling out on him while he had the 
right of way.
Mr P made a claim under  his UKI policy and it investigated what  happened. UKI said based  
on the dash cam footage it had seen,  it appeared Mr Ps vehicle did make contact with the 
third partys  vehicle while overtaking  on the wrong  side of the road. And having  inspected 
Mr Ps vehicle  it found corresponding damage to his car. The third party  insurer  began legal 
proceedings, and taking  this into account, UKI decided it was most likely a court  would 
decide Mr P was at fault for the accident.  So UKI agreed with the third party insurer to settle  
the liability of the claim  as Mr Ps fault.
Mr P said the claim wasnt investigated  properly.  And he said as a result he has lost his no 
claims discount and has a fault claim recorded on the insurance database.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into his 
concerns. He said UKI was able to decide how to proceed with a claim of this nature and this 
was common in most motor insurance policies. In this case  while Mr P disagreed  with UKIs 
interpretation of evidence, it had inspected the vehicle and found  correlating evidence with 
the third partys dash  cam footage. And it sought legal advice, which  said the claim wouldnt 
succeed if it went to court.  So the investigator said UKI chose to settle the claim and did so 
fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr P disagreed and said UKI had misinterpreted the video evidence and damage to his 
vehicle. And he said he believed his complaint did have a reasonable prospect of success  at 
court for these reasons.  He said he felt UKI had settled the claim to avoid court costs. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  this complaint, my role is to decide whether UKI has handled Mr Ps claim 
fairly and in line with its policy terms  not to decide  liability on the incident  itself.
Under ICOBS 8.1 UKI must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ref: DRN96616772Mr Ps policy  says that UKI is entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation,  defence or settlement of any claim in your name, 
or in the name of any other person covered by this policy
This means  UKI has full control  of the claim   so it would be its decision to settle it as it sees 
fit. Mr P says UKI misinterpreted the dash  cam footage and damage to his car, and this led it 
to reach  the wrong decision to settle.
In this case UKI reviewed  the relevant evidence, and sought  the advice of an engineer and 
its own legal  counsel  when deciding how to proceed and the likely outcome if the case  went 
to court.  Im satisfied it made  this decision fairly  and in line with the policy  terms.
Its very likely litigation  would have  been  more costly  than deciding to settle. And so I can 
understand why UKI didnt pursue this when it felt the case wouldnt succeed.  For this reason I dont 
think it was unreasonable for UKI to proceed  as it did and settle the claim without  taking it to court.  
Im sympathetic to Mr Ps situation,  and I understand he feels very strongly about this claim. 
However as Ive outlined,  the decision on how to defend or settle a claim is not his to make.
So Im satisfied UKI has handled  the case promptly and fairly  and Im not asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9661677