K821x#15complaint
Mr S and Mrs S said Commitments  Protection  Ltd (CPL) have  mis-led  them  as they 
understood they would  be pursuing  a mortgage insurance complaint for them. 
For ease of reading I have only referred  to Mr S in my decision.
background
Mr S said he was first approached by CPL in February 2018. He said hed had a successful 
PPI claim from one of his lenders Ill call N. Mr S said CPL gave assurances  to him that if 
he made a mortgage  complaint, he was assured of getting further  compensation.
Mr S said that he was told the complaint  could  take some time, as there  were  different 
stages to go through. And this required a lot of work, so he agreed  to pay an upfront fee of 
£1,195. In December 2018, he was visited again by CPL and said he was again given 
assurance that he was about to receive a minimum of  £5,000 compensation, but possibly as 
much as £15,000. Mr S said he was told by CPL to get this compensation he needed to pay 
a further £708.  Mr S agreed to pay the additional fee, even  though CPL hadnt  been 
updating him about his claim as he said he was told hed get his compensation no later than 
May 2019.
In May 2019, when  Mr S said he hadnt heard anything about  his claim, he contacted  CPL. 
Mr S said he was told that he wasnt due any compensation. Mr S complained  to CPL.
CPL said Mr S had paid for a Full Personal  Review  which  included  a Mortgage Review 
report which hed been sent. They said he hadnt paid a second fee for them to undertake 
claims management activity. But theyd requested information from his mortgage lender, and 
this had been passed to solicitors. The solicitors had considered Mr S case  and couldnt find 
any details on which to litigate. And they had passed  this on to Mr S to advise that there 
wasnt any compensation due to him.
Mr S wasnt  happy with CPLs response  and referred his complaint  to us.
Our investigator said there was little evidence of what happened at the visits to Mr S. And of 
what Mr S had agreed to. She found  Mr S testimony persuasive that he thought  the fee he 
paid was for a mortgage insurance  complaint. And that he hadnt  agreed to pay for a Full 
Personal Review  and Mortgage Review report.  She also said that she hadnt been 
persuaded that CPL had sent the documentation  they said they had. She said CPL should 
repay Mr S his fees plus 8% simple interest.  And £200 for trouble and upset.
CPL didnt agree. But accepted that Mr S had paid the second fee of £708 which they would 
refund. They  asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Where there are different versions about  what has happened, as is the case  here.  I will base 
my findings  on the evidence  I have and what I think was the more likely to have  happened.
Ref: DRN93322142CPL havent  been  able to provide any notes from the meetings their agents had with Mr S. 
And  Mr  S has said he was of the understanding that the services  CPL were providing  for 
him was about  a mortgage insurance  complaint.  He said in the meetings he had with CPL 
he was given assurances that his claims would be successful. And I have no reason  to doubt 
this.
CPL said that Mr S had used their services before, in making a Single Premium  Mortgage 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (SPMPPI)  on his behalf. So, I can understand Mr S thinking 
CPL would be providing him with a similar  service. And his belief that the claim would again  
be successful. 
CPL said the first fee Mr S paid, £1,195 was for a Full Personal  Review and a Mortgage 
Review Report. But Ive not seen any record of the agreement Mr S signed up to for this. 
Neither have I seen a breakdown of how the fee was calculated  or what  work would be done 
for Mr S.
CPL has provided a welcome letter that they say would have been  sent to Mr S. The email 
says its the first part of his Full Personal  Review. It goes on to say that CPL would be 
working for him over the next 12 months. It details what the review  would  go on to look at 
this included  mortgage, Insurance and pension products. And explains that his mortgage 
complaint could take up to two years. CPL said the Mortgage Review  Report was also sent 
to Mr S in February 2018.
Mr S has said he was told there  would be several stages to his mortgage complaint and it 
would take some time and a considerable amount of work to get his complaint  resolved. And 
I think the amount  he was charged  reflects this. He has said he never received either the 
email or the mortgage report.  But if he had I think it would  have  reinforced  his understanding 
as I dont think it  makes clear what the mortgage complaint would be about   mis-selling 
rather than mortgage  insurance as Mr S thought. The report does say there is little chance 
of success . But again, the email says this is only the first part. So, I think   Mr S 
understanding was that there  would  be several  stages to his complaint. And this was just the 
first hurdle.  
The email  says:
The Full Personal Review  Fee our Agent  discussed  with you of £1,195.00 incl VAT 
(£199.00) includes the progression and preparation  of the complaint.
Again, I think   this implies  that CPL will be doing more work to progress Mr S complaint, as it 
says full whereas the details in the email only make reference  to a part having been done. 
The fee Mr S has paid is for the complete progression and preparation of his complaint. 
And as I outlined above, I havent seen a breakdown  of what this would mean. 
Mr S was told his mortgage  complaint would take some time,  yet the mortgage report  was 
with him within  a few days. So, again  I think hed have thought  this was just the start of his 
complaint. And I think by Mr S agreeing for his claim to be progressed  shows he was still of 
this understanding.  And didnt connect  the details about  his claim being a Category C with 
little chance of success, to the mortgage complaint he thought  he was making.
In December 2018, Mr S had another visit form CPL. Again, he said he was given 
assurances that his claim would be successful. CPL dont have a record  of what happened  
Ref: DRN93322143at this meeting.  But Mr S said he was shown screenshots to assure him his compensation 
was on its way. And that this would be made no later than May 2019 and would be between 
£5,000 and £15,000. But he needed to pay an additional fee of £708.  I havent seen any 
agreement or breakdown  of what this additional fee was for. But by Mr S paying  this 
additional fee I think supports his thinking that he was about  to get a substantial  pay-out.
In May 2019, when  Mr S hadnt received the expected compensation, he was told by CPL 
that hed had his Full Personal Review and Mortgage  Review  report. And his complaint 
had been taken  forward  into Claims Management  Activity, for which he hadnt been  charged 
a fee.
CPLs terms of business say:
We do not charge  upfront  fees for Claims Management activities.  If we are to act on your 
behalf in any claims management activity we will charge a success  fee plus VAT..
So, again  its unclear what the £708  fee was for. Im pleased that CPL has already  agreed to 
refund this fee.
Without having a record of the discussions that Mr S had with CPL in February  and 
December 2018,   Im persuaded that Mr S from the information he had would have thought  
CPL was preparing  and progressing a mortgage complaint on his behalf. And that the fees 
he paid was for this work to be done.  
CPL has said the initial  fee of £1,195  was for Mr S to get a Full Personal Review  and 
Mortgage Review report. But as outlined above I dont think this was clear,  and I think  mis-
leading about  the time the work would take, what work would be done  and what products 
would be looked  at. And I think Mr S paid the fee on the understanding  that CPL was 
handling a mortgage insurance  complaint  as they had before for him. And that this complaint 
was highly likely to be successful. I dont think he paid the fees for a claim about his 
mortgage product  being mis-sold  or any other products.  
Mr S didnt have a successful claim. So, I dont think CPL can justify their fees. 
It isnt our role to punish a business,  but where  we think  something has gone  wrong,  as is 
the case here, we would look to put the consumer back into the position  they would have 
been. And for Mr S the money hed paid in fees wasnt available  to him to use or invest. So, I 
agree with our investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to this amount  from 
the date it was paid to the date of CPLs settlement. And Id expect this payment to be made 
within a reasonable amount of time from my decision  Id consider this to be within 28 days.
As outlined  above  I found Mr S testimony  to be persuasive as to the level of assurance he 
was given about getting further compensation. So, I can understand the upset he felt when 
this didnt happen. Add to this the lack of updates that CPL gave him which  meant he had 
the trouble of having to chase for information when hed already paid a considerable fee 
must have  been  frustrating. So, I agree  with our investigator that Mr S should  be 
compensated for this, And I think £200 reflects the trouble and upset caused to him.
Ref: DRN93322144my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And ask Commitments  Protection  Ltd to:
refund  Mr S, fees totalling £1,903 (£1195  plus £708) that hes paid;
add *8% simple interest from the date the fees were paid to the date Commitments 
Protection Ltd refund his payments; and
pay £200 for trouble and upset
*If Commitments Protection Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9332214