K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that, nine weeks after issuing  a mortgage offer, more 2 life Ltd 
(M2L) declined to lend.  To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs M would  like M2L to compensate 
them, their daughter and son-in-law for legal fees, anxiety and stress. 
background
The background to this matter is set out in detail in the correspondence between  the parties  
and in the detailed letter from our investigator  dated 31 March  2020. I will not repeat  all the 
background information here, as our decisions are published and I have to ensure that 
nothing in this decision might lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified.
Briefly, after a recommendation  from their financial advisor, Mr and Mrs M applied  for a 
£100,000 equity release  mortgage with M2L. The purpose of the loan was to assist their 
daughter and son-in-law with the purchase  of a property.
A valuation  was carried out by a surveyor acting for M2L, who valued Mr and Mrs Ms 
property at £540,000. A mortgage offer was issued  on 20 December 2018 and was sent to 
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors.  
A separate  firm of solicitors, O, was acting  for M2L. Their role was to ensure that the legal 
title to the property  provided suitable security  for the mortgage. After  inspecting the title 
documents and raising enquiries  with Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors about various issues relating  
to the legal title and the property  and in particular the water supply  O reports  its findings  
to M2L.  After reviewing  what  O had said, the underwriters at M2L declined  to proceed with 
the mortgage. The decision was relayed to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  and broker on 20 
March 2019.
Mr and Mrs M complained to M2L. They said that O had told their solicitors in January 2019 
that the funds  would be released within a few days. They also said that O had failed to 
respond to their solicitors  points about  how the issues relating to the title could be resolved. 
Mr and Mrs M argue that the valuer highlighted in early January 2019 that the property had a 
private water supply and so at that point  M2L should have been aware that this might be an 
issue and declined the application  at that point.
The complaint wasnt upheld by M2L so Mr and Mrs M brought  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, where two investigators looked at what  had happened. After reviewing 
the complaint,  the investigators didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Both were 
satisfied M2L was entitled to decline  the application.
Mr and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They have provided an 
email from their solicitors dated  31 January 2019 they say confirms  O had said funds would 
be released within a few days. Mr and Mrs M have also reiterated that O failed to respond  to 
their solicitors correspondence after the application was declined.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95636432The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I must also explain  that Mr and Mrs Ms daughter and son-in-law are not M2Ls customers. 
We can only consider a complaint about M2L from a customer of the business, in this case, 
Mr and Mrs M. So although  I appreciate the length of time it took for the application to be 
declined has affected family members,  this isnt something I am able to take into account.
The issue  in this case is about the exercise by M2L of its commercial judgment  when 
deciding the terms  on which  to offer a mortgage  to Mr and Mrs M. 
Where a complaint  is about the exercise  by a lender  of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether  that judgement has been  exercised fairly and reasonably;  it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of M2L.  In other  words,  I have to decide  if M2L took into account 
all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them  before reaching  its decision. It is 
only if I thought  no lender  could reasonably have made the decisions M2L made in this case  
that there  would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Mortgage lending  is conditional upon (a) the suitability of the borrowers against lending  
criteria and (b) the property to be mortgaged providing adequate security  for the loan.  M2L is 
entitled to set its own lending criteria around  those  matters.  Decisions  that M2L makes  in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude  to risk involved  in this particular lending  
assessment, and whether it should  lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for M2Ls own commercial judgement  that I would not interfere with. Additionally in 
deciding whether to lend to Mr and Mrs M, M2L is entitled to take account of its own interests 
when making such  decisions.  It is not obliged to take account only of the interests of the 
borrower.
As I said above, I am not setting out each and every event  that took place during the 
application process. In the light of what Ive said above, I dont need to. 
When O received the documentation relating  to the property title, it was noted  that Mr and 
Mrs M had owned the property for less than six months, and that there was a possessory 
title affecting the property,  as well as issues around the water supply, leases and licences. 
All of this required further detailed examination, by M2L, O and the surveyors whod dealt 
with the valuation. As a result, it became clear that the title issues were  not straightforward.
I wont set out the chronology of what happened between  M2L,  O and the surveyors; thats 
detailed in the final response  letter sent to Mr and Mrs M by M2L. But Im satisfied that the 
enquiries and requests  for information  were relevant and were not, in my opinion,  excessive, 
Ref: DRN95636433given the complex  nature  of the titles to the property, issues around  leases and licences and 
the water  supply.
Overall, I dont  think the timescale of nine weeks to decide not to proceed with the 
application was excessive. I have looked at the email from Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors dated 
31 January 2019  but this does not confirm that O has stated the funds will be released; 
rather, it is Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors who say this. I am not persuaded that either M2L or O 
gave any assurance  that funds would be released in January 2019.
There was considerable discussion between O and M2L (which I am not at liberty to 
disclose, as it is privileged and confidential between solicitor and client) about the title, the 
water supply and how the issues around these might affect M2Ls security. Having looked at 
the way in which M2L considered the application  (including the involvement  of O in 
examining the legal title, and the enquiries made  of the surveyors), Im satisfied that M2L 
took into account all relevant  factors  before deciding that the property being offered as 
security for the loan was not suitable  because the issues with the title were too onerous and 
outside M2Ls appetite  for risk. 
Im also satisfied that O provided appropriate and detailed responses to the emails from 
Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors.  Once it had been explained to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors  and 
broker the reasons  for the application not proceeding, there  was no obligation on M2L,  or O, 
to continue the correspondence.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that M2L gave fair consideration to this application  and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding not to proceed.  This means 
that there  is no basis upon  which  I can find that M2L has treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9563643