K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) asked her to pay for 
damage to a car at the end of a hire purchase  agreement. 
background 
In June 2015 Mrs H acquired a new car via a hire purchase agreement with PSA.  At the end 
of the agreement the car was collected and inspected and a report was prepared as to the 
cars condition. 
Mrs H was invoiced for £751 worth of damage  to the car that PSA said was outside fair wear  
and tear. There was damage to the front alloy wheel which  had scuffs, poor standard paint  
repairs to the right front door, to the left front wing and also the quarter panel, and scuffs to 
the front bumper  and a service had been missed.
Mrs H disagreed with all the recorded damage.  She said the car had been  professionally re-
sprayed after minor damage had been sustained in August 2015. Mrs H also said that she 
had asked for the car to be inspected by the company  that had done the re-spray as it was 
under warranty but this was declined. She said this was unfair. 
Mrs H complained to PSA. PSA didnt uphold her complaint.  It said under the agreement the 
car was to be returned in good  condition and it was satisfied on reviewing the condition 
report and photos  of the car that there  was evidence the damage was outside  fair wear and 
tear. 
PSA said all repairs should be carried out by a manufacturer approved repairer  and if Mrs H 
had used an approved garage then she should provide the invoice and this would be 
reviewed. It also said it wasnt able to make  the car available  for secondary inspections or to 
be refinished by the body  shop that had been  originally used. 
Mrs H was unhappy at PSAs  response and complained  to this service. Our investigator 
partially upheld  her complaint. He said hed looked  at the damage report and photos  and 
referred to the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines that 
were used as the industry standard as to what was fair wear  and tear.  
Our investigator said looking at the guidelines he was satisfied that most  of the damage and 
the lack of service  were  chargeable. However, he didnt think the left front wing was 
chargeable as the photo was unclear  as to the condition of the paint work. He said he had 
raised this with PSA who had agreed  to remove the cost of £122 in respect  of the left front 
wing from the invoice.  He said he thought PSA had acted  fairly  in requiring the other 
amounts to be paid.  
Mrs H agreed  that the charges for the missing  service and the scuffs to the front alloy and 
bumper were fair. However, she disagreed there  had been poor paint work undertaken to the 
front door and quarter panel.  Mrs H said she had shown the photos  to body shop that had 
undertaken the re-spray and it had said although there was a slight orange peel effect this 
was common to the entire car and was the case in most factory finishes. She said the paint 
match had been perfect. Mrs H also asked for the invoices raised by PSA in respect of its 
subsequent repairs  to the paint work  to validate  its claims. 
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me.
Ref: DRN90306032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  for me to resolve is whether the paint  work to the car was chargeable as not 
meeting the standards  set by the BVRLA  guidelines. Mrs H accepts the areas raised by PSA 
as having poor paint  work were all subject to a respray and that this was not carried out by a 
manufacturers approved  repairer.
Mrs H has asked that PSA provide copies of the repair invoices it obtained for having the 
paint work  corrected but PSA arent  obliged to have the car repaired. The charge on her 
reflects the impact such  damage will have on the value of the car so a lack of invoices 
doesnt mean that PSA acted unfairly in invoicing  Mrs H for the poor paint  work.
Mrs H says that the paint  work was a perfect match and that there was no noticeable  issue 
with the paint work. As Im not able to view the car itself I have  to rely on what  I can see in 
the photos that have been  provided. I agree with the investigator  that the photo of the door 
was unclear but looking at the other photos  I think the ripple  effect is clear. And I think this 
stands out form the surrounding paint work on the cars body. 
Looking at the BVRLA guidelines Ive seen that these say obvious evidence  of poor repair,  
such as flaking, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish  and poorly  matched 
paint is not acceptable. 
So, although  I appreciate Mrs H says the company that re-sprayed  the car disagrees  with 
the criticism of its paint work,  Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen  that there is a ripple 
effect and this is not considered to be fair wear and tear. I dont think PSA has acted unfairly 
in invoicing Mrs H for the paint work on the front door and quarter panel.
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mrs Hs complaint in that I think  the 
removal of £122  for the front left wing was fair but that the remaining charges are payable. I 
think PSA was entitled to invoice Mrs H £629 being the cost of the repairs  needed to the car 
which were outside  fair wear and tear.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9030603