K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs signed  mortgage application. It includes a section on 
Mortgage Payments Protector  (a form of PPI).  It said Halifax  strongly recommended  
that the applicant consider the cover.  And it said If you wish to join the Scheme  enter 
the amount of monthly benefit you require. £150  was written in the adjacent  box.
I think it was clear  from the way the PPI was referred  to in the application form that it was 
optional. And Mr B completed a separate application form for the PPI. Taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied that Halifax made  Mr B aware that the PPI was optional  and 
that he chose  to take it.
Mr B says he cant remember  how the PPI was sold to him, but he says Halifax didnt 
give him advice, or recommend that he take out the PPI. Halifaxs records show  that 
Mr B applied  for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting in one of its branches. And it says it 
would have advised Mr B to take out the policy. For the purposes of this decision, Ive 
assumed that thats the case, as it means that Halifax  had a responsibility to check  that 
the policy was suitable for Mr B. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable, based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs told us that hed have been  entitled to statutory sick pay from his employer. And 
he says that aside  from payments from his employer, he wouldnt have had any other  
way of making his mortgage payments if hed been  off sick, or if hed lost his job. So 
I think Mr B could have  struggled  to keep up with his mortgage payments alongside his 
daily living costs  if hed been  unable to work. The PPI would have covered Mr Bs 
monthly mortgage payments  for up to 24 months  per successful claim  for accident or 
sickness, and for up to 12 months  per successful claim for unemployment. 
Ive borne in mind  that Mr Bs mortgage was a long-term financial commitment,  and his 
property could have  been at risk if he didnt keep up with his mortgage payments. Taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI could have  been  useful to him.
Ref: DRN98370552The policy was competitively priced.  And the monthly premium was shown clearly  on the 
PPI application  form. Ive also seen a copy of the letter  that Halifax sent to Mr B, 
enclosing a copy of the PPI insurance certificate.  Both the letter and the certificate 
clearly show the monthly premium  for the policy. So I think Mr B would have understood 
how much hed need to pay for it. And since  he was paying for the policy monthly, he 
could have cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed,  or if he decided he no 
longer wanted the cover.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions). But from what  hes 
told us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr B would have been affected  
by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Mr Bs comments,  including what hes said, since  the adjudicator 
sent out his view, about having been told that if he didnt take PPI with Halifax, he wouldnt 
get a mortgage.  But Im not convinced that Mr Bs recollection of the sale is very clear.  I dont 
find that surprising,  given that it took place more than 25 years ago. But I cant fairly  
conclude that he was told his application  wouldnt  be approved if he didnt take PPI, based  
purely on what he says. And I find it hard to reconcile, in any event, with what he said when 
he brought his complaint to us  namely that when he applied  for the mortgage, no mention  
was made  of attaching a PPI policy to his mortgage.
Ive also noted  that Mr B says he wasnt told hed be paying a single premium for the policy, 
and would be paying interest  on that premium. But this isnt the case. Mr B paid a monthly  
premium for the policy.
Finally, Mr B says he wasnt told he could source PPI elsewhere at a lower  cost. But Halifax 
wasnt obliged to tell Mr B about  policies that might  have  been available  from other 
providers. 
Ive thought carefully about all Mr Bs comments,  but they dont change my conclusion  that 
the policy wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9837055