K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them an 
Additions packaged bank account in 1997. They paid a monthly  fee for the account which 
provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs Ms account was opened  as a fee-free current account  in May 1992.  It was 
upgraded to an Additions packaged account in March 1997, and an Additions Plus account 
in July 2004.
Weve already told Mr and Mrs M that we cant consider the sale of the Additions Plus 
account because  the complaint was made too late. So in this decision Ill only be considering 
whether Mr and Mrs Ms Additions  account  was mis-sold in March  1997.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the account to Mr and Mrs M and 
didnt recommend that Barclays should  pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the packaged bank 
account was mis-sold  to them.  Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice when they took 
their Additions account.
Mr and Mrs M say they cant remember agreeing to the account, and I understand theyre 
concerned that Barclays isnt able to provided  evidence that they did indeed  agree to it. But 
in considering what happened, I also have to be mindful that their account was upgraded 
over 22 years ago. So I dont think its unreasonable for Mr and Mrs Ms memory to have 
faded, nor indeed for Barclays  not to have  much information available about the sale.
Despite the limited information  available, Barclays has provided a brief contact note.  The 
note suggests  that Mr and Mrs M upgraded their account at the same  time as discussing 
their overdraft limit with Barclays. Whilst I dont know exactly  what  was discussed during that 
conversation, it does persuade me that its more likely than not that some sort of discussion 
about the Additions account took place.
So on balance, I think Mr and Mrs M likely knew they had a choice  about  upgrading their 
account, and chose to do so.
Ref: DRN96221512I dont think that Barclays  personally recommended the Additions account  to Mr and Mrs M. 
So whilst it didnt have to check  whether the account  was suitable for them, it had to give 
Mr and Mrs M enough clear information  about  the account for them  to decide if they wanted 
it. 
At the time they upgraded to the Additions Plus account Barclays  charged its customers  a £5 
usage fee for using an arranged overdraft. This fee was waived for Additions account  
holders  and the account also gave the first £100  of arranged overdrafts interest-free.
I havent seen  bank statements dating  back as far as when the account  was upgraded but 
the earliest Ive seen   from around  ten months  later  show  that Mr and Mrs M were using 
their overdraft regularly, and continued to do so in the years that followed. So I think its likely 
that they were  also using  their overdraft regularly at the time they upgraded too. 
As the cost of the Additions account was also £5 per month,  this was the same as Mr and 
Mrs M wouldve paid to use their overdraft if theyd kept a fee-free account.  But as the £5 
Additions fee also included the interest-free portion,  as well as other  benefits,  I think Mr and 
Mrs M likely  upgraded because they were told about the benefits, and they appealed  to 
them.  
I fully appreciate that Mr and Mrs M may not have used all the benefits of the Additions 
account. And with hindsight they might not feel like it was good value to them over the years.  
But this doesnt  mean Barclays mis-sold the account. 
Its also possible that Barclays didnt  tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should  have  about  the 
Additions account. But I havent  seen  anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt 
still have taken the account even  if Barclays had told them  more  about  it. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive looked at all the information  I have  about  their 
complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  everything theyve said. But having done so I 
dont think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account  to them.  So I dont think it owes  them  
any money.
I understand that Mr M has had a period of ill health  over the past few years.  Whilst that isnt 
related to my decision, Id like to pass on my best wishes to him.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622151