K820x#14complaint
Mr B, Mrs B1 and Mrs B2 complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  their personal 
account without  consulting with them. And theyre unhappy that they havent been  told why 
their account  was blocked.
Mr B, Mrs B1 and Mrs B2 have brought their complaint jointly.  Rather than write the 
individual titles and initials of each account  holder  every time I reference  them,  I will largely 
refer to them as just Mr B for ease of reading.  
background
Mr B, Mrs B1 and Mrs B2 hold a joint account with Barclays. On 22 May 2018 their account 
was suspended after Barclays blocked it following an internal  review being triggered. This 
restricted the way in which they were  able to use their account. Specifically, they werent  
able to access their available funds and they were prevented from using their account 
facilities.
On 25 May 2018 Mr B telephoned  Barclays as he was unable  to successfully log into online 
banking. He was advised a review  was being undertaken on the account and that it would be 
ongoing until around 5 June 2018. But it wasnt until 11 June 2018 that the block  was 
removed because Barclays took longer than it initially thought it would need to complete its 
internal review. 
When Mr B complained to Barclays about his account being blocked it told him that the 
terms and conditions of his account  enable  it to review customer accounts at any time where 
a review is deemed necessary. And it said this can be done without prior warning. But 
Barclays agreed that its review had taken longer than the usual ten working days  it aimed to 
complete all account reviews within. So it upheld his complaint on this basis. To recognise  
inconvenience this delay caused Mr B, Mrs B1 and Mrs B2 Barclays  offered to pay £350  
compensation  of which £150 was offered to compensate Mrs B1 for the additional travel 
costs she incurred as she was in France at the time and had to leave early  as a result  of 
what happened.
Being dissatisfied with Barclays  response  Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He 
wanted Barclays to explain why it had blocked  this account. And he didnt  think  the 
compensation it had offered here adequately  recognised  the trouble and upset he had been  
caused.
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr B, they didnt think  
Barclays had done anything wrong or needed to do anything more here. They thought  the 
£350 goodwill  payment it had offered for the additional time Barclays  had taken to review Mr 
Bs account was appropriate and fair. But Mr B disagreed and asked  for the matter  to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
Ref: DRN95824992the key issues. I can assure Mr B and Barclays that Ive read everything that they have  
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr B experienced here.  I can appreciate  that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. But the issue here is whether 
Barclays acted fairly  in placing a block on his account and whether the length of time it took 
to undertake its internal review was reasonable.
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened  
must have  been  extremely frustrating  and worrying. But Im not persuaded that Barclays did 
anything wrong  by reviewing this account as it did. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions  that apply to this account  outline the circumstances in which  
Barclays can block an account.  Having  considered  those terms carefully  Im satisfied 
Barclays acted in line with them. But any account  review should be completed in a timely 
manner. And I can see that Barclays removed  the block from this account  on 11 June 2018. 
This was just under a week longer than it would usually take to complete account reviews.
I understand that Mr B wants Barclays to explain the reason it applied the blocks to the 
account. But Barclays doesnt disclose to its customers what  triggers a review of their 
account. Its under no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind this account review, as 
much as he wants to know. But Barclays has told this service why it placed the block on the 
account. Having  considered this - Im satisfied it was entitled to do what  it did here. But its 
also asked us to treat this information  as confidential, as its entitled to. So to be fair to both 
sides, I hope Mr B will understand  why this service isnt able to share this with him.
Overall, I think Barclays gave Mr B a fair explanation  of what happened in its final response 
letter. I realise that this didnt go into the level of detail Mr B wanted, or expected. But 
impartially, I think Barclays provided all the information its able to give Mr B. It isnt able to 
elaborate any further and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Barclays to do anymore here.
Barclays has already  accepted  it took longer to undertake its review than it would have liked. 
And its acknowledged this already by offering to compensate Mr B £350 to recognise  the 
trouble and upset  this caused. But its clear he doesnt think this sum adequately reflects  his 
inconvenience and experience.
Its my role to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the individual  circumstances of a dispute. 
So here, I have  to take into account whether the additional time Barclays  took to undertake 
its internal review impacted on Mr B.
Ive assessed  whether  the level of compensation Barclays offered Mr B appropriately 
recognises what happened.  He was inconvenienced  and I dont  doubt  he wouldve been  
worried about when  access to his account would be reinstated. 
Ref: DRN95824993Ive reviewed Mr Bs bank statements relating to this account. And I can see that while he 
wasnt able to withdraw money, his direct debits were properly met by Barclays.  Theres  no 
evidence that payments  were declined. I can also see that Barclays  repaid some money that 
it had removed from Mr Bs account while it was undertaking  its internal review. So, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B suffered any financial loss as a result  of what happened.  I can also see 
that on 12 June  2018 Mr B was using his debit  card to make card payments out of his 
account. This satisfies me that his full account facilities had been  reinstated by this time.
I recognise that Mr B would have spent a considerable amount of time in trying to 
understand why access to his account was suspended and in trying to resolve matters with 
Barclays. But, Im satisfied  that the compensation offered is a reasonable amount, which  
reflects the impact this had here.
I appreciate that Mr B feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint  and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But, as Ive already explained Barclays  is 
entitled to conduct internal reviews of its customers accounts. So, I cant fairly  find that it did 
anything wrong  in reviewing the account.  And Im satisfied that the £350 Barclays has 
already offered to pay Mr B is fair to compensate him for the inconvenience caused  by 
Barclays delays in finalising its internal review of his account. So, Im not going  to ask it to 
do anymore here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr B, Mrs B1 and Mrs B2 
to decide whether they wish to approach Barclays Bank UK PLC to accept the £350  it 
offered to resolve  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, Mrs B1 and 
Mrs B2 to accept or reject  my decision  before 23 September 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9582499