K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  policy  
(PPI) when he took out a credit card in 1997.
background
Mr J took out a credit card and at the same time he bought the PPI. 
This policy would  have covered him if he was unable to work  because of an accident, 
sickness or if he lost his job. The PPI cost £0.75 per £100 of the outstanding balance on his 
credit card and it would have paid out 10% of this balance for up to 12 months per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr J disagreed with this view 
and asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will explain why.
Not all the paperwork from the time is available. This isnt unusual  as so much  time has 
passed since the sale took place.  But where the evidence is incomplete, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened taking into account what  the parties 
have told us, the evidence available and what  we know about these types of sales.
Mr J says he thought  it would be easier to get the credit card with the PPI. So as NatWest 
had to give him a fair choice about  buying the PPI Ive first of all thought  about  what  hes told 
me. NatWest cant provide the application  form that was completed at the time but from what 
we know about  the sales processes at that time for this type of sale, I think Mr J would have 
had to actively choose the PPI and say he wanted it in order to take it out. I think  he could 
have refused it if he didnt  want it. I also think the PPI would have appeared on his bank 
statements so if he wanted to question it he could have done  so with NatWest.  Overall, I 
think its more likely  he knew he was choosing the PPI and that he could have said no if he 
didnt want to buy it.
Theres nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was made for the PPI. So I 
dont think this was an advised sale. That meant NatWest didnt have to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was suitable  for his circumstances. But it still did have to give Mr J 
enough clear information  so he could  make an informed decision about whether or not to 
take out the PPI for himself.
Its possible not all the information NatWest gave  Mr J was as clear as it should  have  been.  
But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to consider whether  more 
information would have changed Mr Js mind about buying the PPI. Thinking  about 
everything, I dont think it would have done. 
Ref: DRN95290932Mr J has told us he was self-employed at the time. Sometimes the exclusions or limitations 
in the policy  document would have meant Mr J would have to take more steps before he 
could make a successful claim than an employed person which meant  it might  have been 
more difficult to make a claim. But in this case I dont think  the policy terms and conditions  
would have made it more  difficult  to make a successful claim as a self-employed  person.  
And Mr J has told us he was in good health  so I dont think he would likely be affected  by 
any of the main things  in the policy that might have made it more difficult  to make  a 
successful claim.
As a self-employed person, Mr J didnt have any sick pay he could rely on if he couldnt work  
and he hasnt told us about savings he had. This policy  would have paid out the monthly  
benefit for up to 12 months per claim so I think this policy would  have been  useful if things  
went wrong.
At the time it looks as though it was affordable for Mr J and I cant see he had a particular 
need to keep his costs  down.
All in all, I think he likely  chose the insurance and I think  it could have been useful if things 
went wrong, so I think he would have still bought it for the reasons Ive given above  - even if 
the information had been better or clearer. 
Ive taken everything Mr J has told me into account including what he says about other PPI 
policies sold by other banks which have been refunded. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. I say this because we look at each  case independently based on its own merits 
and the facts which apply in one case dont necessarily apply in another.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J but I dont  think he lost out for the reasons Ive given above and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. It follows  that National 
Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9529093