K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund a series of payments made  using his 
debit card and which  he says he neither made  nor authorised.    
background
Mr B was working overseas. He has explained  that he and a friend visited a club in the early  
hours of the morning.  He made  two card payments within a couple  of minutes of each other 
 which  hes not disputing. But, Mr B says, when  he and his friend left for a bar a little while  
later, he accidently  left his jacket in the club; it contained his wallet which  in turn contained 
his debit card. 
Mr B says he realised about an hour later that he didnt have his jacket  and returned to the 
club. Staff found his jacket and returned  it to him. His wallet  was still in the pocket and his 
card was still in his wallet, although he thinks a small amount of cash may have gone 
missing. Mr N later tried to use his card to withdraw  cash, at other bars and to transfer  
money to an e-money account,  but was largely  unsuccessful. 
Mr B says he later found out that, while  hed been  without his jacket,  his card had been used 
to make payments  to the club and for cash machine withdrawals of more  than £800. 
HSBC looked  into the transactions that Mr B said he didnt make,  but said it would not refund 
them. The bank believed that Mr B had authorised all the transactions. Mr B didnt  accept 
that and referred  the case to this service.  One of our investigators considered it but agreed 
with HSBC. Mr B remained unhappy  and asked  that an ombudsman  review the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator.
First, Im satisfied the disputed transactions were  made using Mr Bs genuine  card, rather 
than a copy of it. That is of course  consistent with someone having taken it from his jacket 
pocket and having used it in the club and at a cash machine. Im satisfied  as well that the 
card was used with the PIN associated with it. The PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the 
card itself, and its unlikely that anyone would have been able to guess it. 
The bank says that there was no obvious  point of compromise of the PIN. I dont think thats 
correct, however. As Ive explained, Mr B used his card twice  in the club before the 
payments hes disputing. Its possible therefore  that someone could have watched Mr B 
entering the PIN at that point. In my view,  however, thats not very likely.  Someone 
observing the PIN wouldnt have known that Mr B would later inadvertently  leave his jacket 
at the club for an hour  with his card. 
Nor do the disputed  transactions  themselves indicate an opportunist at work. I should  
mention here that the first was made just ten minutes after the undisputed payments. I think  
it unlikely that Mr B and his friend  spent only ten minutes in the club. But in any event, the 
subsequent three attempts  to use the card were unsuccessful, as were a number of attempts 
to use a cash machine  near the club. I think its unlikely that someone who had found Mr Bs 
card in the club would  take it out of the club, make several attempts to use it to withdraw 
cash and then return it to the club. I note too that the last (unsuccessful) use of the card that 
Ref: DRN90338602Mr B said wasnt  him was just two minutes before he tried to make a cash machine 
withdrawal. If what Mr B says is correct, he retrieved his jacket  from the club within that time.        
I cant completely rule out the possibility that events unfolded as Mr B has described.  But, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think thats likely.  I believe his recollection of how long he 
was in the club is unreliable. And, whilst he may have left his jacket there, I believe it was for 
a much shorter period  than he recalls. But, most significantly, I think  it more  likely than not 
that he carried out the disputed transactions. For those reasons, it wouldnt be fair to require 
HSBC to refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9033860