K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave her loans 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss T was given three  loans by Sunny between October 2017 and December 2017. Each of 
the loans was repayable in six monthly  instalments.  All the loans have  been  fully repaid. A 
summary of Miss Ts borrowing  from Sunny  is as follows:
Loan  
NumberBorrowing  
DateRepayment 
DateLoan Amount  Loan instalments
1 6/10/2017 30/11/2017 £ 4005 instalments of 
£114.73 and 1 of 
£114.75
2 6/11/2017 31/01/2018 £ 2005 instalments of 
£57.08 and 1 of 
£57.04
3 5/12/2017 28/02/2018 £ 2005 instalments of 
£64.18 and 1 of 
£64.13
Miss T said that the credit  assessments for the loans were unfair. Sunny had put adverse 
credit entries onto her credit file due to payments  being late and these had damaged  her 
credit file. Miss T also said that the interest  paid on the loans was high and she wasnt  told 
she would  be charged more for paying late.
Sunny said that it had conducted creditworthiness checks and it considered  that Miss T was 
managing her other debts at the time.  Sunny said that its checks took into account some of 
the adverse information at the credit reference agencies so Miss T was offered a smaller 
amount of credit relative to her stated income.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He noted  that Sunny 
had asked Miss T for details of her income and expenditure and that it had carried out a 
credit check.  He concluded that these checks went far enough. He noted that Miss Ts 
declared income and expenditure showed that she had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the repayments due. And he noted  that the credit  check  results didnt show any particular 
concerning information that shouldve prompted  Sunny  not to lend.
Miss T disagreed and responded to say that in December 2018 Sunny had allowed her to 
roll the loans over even  though every time she paid off a loan, she took another loan to clear 
the previous one off. In December 2018  she was late with two loan repayments. She had 
spoken to Sunny to ask to repay these the following month which  it agreed  to. But it didnt 
tell her that these would show  as late repayments on her credit file. The late repayments  
were then shown by late payment markers  on her credit file.
Sunny has agreed  to arrange to remove the two loans affected  by the late payments from 
Miss Ts credit file so that there would be no adverse history on her file.
Ref: DRN93219682But Miss T wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint.  She was seeking compensation 
as Sunny had allowed her to roll over the loans which had led her into more debt even 
though it knew  she couldnt pay the loans she had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Sunny has offered  to remove the late payment  markers  from Miss Ts credit  file. I 
think this is reasonable.  But I can see that Miss Ts credit agreement  said that late payments 
would be notified  to the credit reference  agencies. And I also note that Miss T was told by 
Sunny when she called it on 22 January 2018 to arrange to pay her arrears that the late 
payments would be reported to the credit  reference  agencies. So I dont think that Sunny 
acted inappropriately  in putting the late payment  markers on Miss Ts credit file as it was 
acting in line with its agreement terms.
I also note that Miss T said that the interest  paid on the loans  was high and she wasnt told 
she would  be charged more for paying late. But Ive seen  Miss Ts credit agreements  and 
the interest charged  is stated within the agreement  terms which shed agreed to. On Loans 1 
and 2, the agreements said that 0.64% per day on the outstanding balance would be 
charged. On Loan 3, the terms said that 0.8% per day would be charged  on the outstanding 
balance. The agreements also said that there  were  no fees for late or missed  payments.
Miss T also said that every  time she paid off a loan, she took another loan to clear the 
previous one off. But looking at the dates Miss T repaid Loans 1 and 2, and the loans 
reported in Miss Ts own credit report, this doesnt  appear to be the case  with regard to 
those loans.
I can also see that Miss T didnt  think that Sunnys credit assessment was fair. Sunny was 
required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to make sure Miss T could afford to 
repay the loans  before  it lent to her. Those checks needed to be proportionate to things such 
as the amount Miss T was borrowing, the length of the agreements  and her lending history. 
But there was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Miss T borrowed from Sunny. 
Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the 
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue 
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time 
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss T. It carried  out a credit 
check and has provided us with some  information  about its credit checks which  Ive referred 
to below. Sunny also asked Miss T for details of her income and her regular expenditure 
before agreeing each loan.
 
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £400 repayable by six monthly instalments with a highest instalment of 
£114.75. Miss T had declared an income  of £1,700 and regular outgoings  of £725 including  
Ref: DRN93219683other credit commitments of £250. So her stated  disposable  income  was £975. Ive also 
seen some information from Sunnys credit check,  which showed an active  loans balance  of 
£10,276 and that one short term loan had been opened in the previous month. Sunny said 
that it had taken adverse information on Miss Ts credit file into account and I note that it 
appears to have assessed  Miss Ts disposable income to be £770. Taking Miss Ts 
disposable income of £770 into account here, it appears that Miss T would have had 
sufficient disposable  income to sustainably  repay  Loan 1. And there was little to suggest to 
Sunny at this stage  that Miss T wasnt using the loan in the way it was intended  as a short  
term solution to a temporary  cash flow problem. So I dont think  Sunny was wrong to agree 
to this loan. 
Miss T repaid Loan 1 early on 30 November 2017.
Loan 2
Miss T took out Loan 2 one month  after Loan 1 at a time when she was still repaying the 
instalments under Loan 1. So her highest total monthly instalments would have been  around 
£171.81. Miss T had again declared an income of £1,700 and regular outgoings of £475. But 
she hadnt declared any credit commitments as part of her regular expenditure. Ive also 
seen some information from Sunnys credit check,  which showed an active  loans balance  of 
£11,195 and home credit  of £718.  But Sunny also appears to have taken Miss Ts credit  
commitments into account. It said that it had taken adverse information on the credit file into 
account and I note that it appears to have  assessed  Miss Ts disposable income to be £703.  
Taking Miss Ts amended disposable  income  of £703 into account here, it appears that 
Miss T would have had sufficient disposable income  to sustainably repay Loan 2. So I think  
Sunny had carried out proportionate checks here and I dont think  Sunny did anything  wrong 
in giving Loan 2 to Miss T.
 
Loan 3
When Miss T took out Loan 3, Loan  1 had already  been repaid and her repayments  on 
Loan 2 were up to date.  The loan amount was again £200. As Loan  2 remained outstanding, 
her highest  total loan repayments on both loans would have totalled around £121.26. Miss T 
declared a disposable income of £1,075. I think Miss Ts regular borrowing behaviour might 
have caused some concerns to Sunny. But her repayments still appeared to be easily 
affordable based  on what  shed declared to Sunny about her disposable income. Miss T had 
declared credit commitments of £150  to Sunny but it appears to have taken the credit 
commitments shown  on Miss Ts credit  check into account. I note that it appears to have 
assessed Miss Ts disposable  income  to be £789.  Taking Miss Ts amended  disposable 
income of £789  into account here,  it appears that Miss T would have had sufficient 
disposable income to sustainably  repay Loan  3. So I think  Sunny had carried out 
proportionate checks here and I dont think Sunny did anything  wrong  in giving Loan 3 to 
Miss T.
I note Miss T is seeking compensation  as she said that Sunny had allowed her to roll over 
the loans which had led her into more debt even though it knew  she couldnt pay the loans 
she had.  
I can see that Miss T missed a repayment  on Loan 2 in December 2018. She said that this 
was due to Christmas. Sunny had taken details  of Miss Ts income  and expenditure to check 
that any arrangement  was affordable  and then agreed that her missed repayment could be 
spread over her remaining monthly  payments going forward.  But Miss T had then paid off 
Ref: DRN93219684the remaining  loan balance of £242.52 on the next due date. It appears to me that she could 
have kept to her lower  scheduled monthly repayments if she was short of money. It was her 
choice to repay the loan and wasnt actioned at Sunnys request. 
I can see that Miss T missed two repayments  on Loan 3. She said that the first missed 
repayment was due to Christmas. Sunny had allowed her to spread the first missed 
repayment over her remaining monthly  payments  going forward after taking details of her 
disposable income. With regard to the second missed payment, Miss T had spoken to Sunny 
on 31 January 2018  and explained that she had paid off Loan  2 on that date and she 
promised to pay Loan 3 off in full on the next months due date, which  she did. But it appears 
to me that if Miss T hadnt paid off Loan  2 in full, that she would have had sufficient money  to 
make her January 2018 repayment  on Loan 3. 
So I cant see that Sunnys actions had led Miss T into more debt. It was her choice to repay 
Loan 2 early and I cant see that was actioned at Sunnys request. Again she could have 
kept to her lower scheduled monthly  repayments  if she was short of money.
So for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9321968