K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home contents insurance  with Royal  
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background 
Mr Bs insurance policy with RSA started in 1999.  It initially cost £456 for the year.  The next 
year, 2000,  Mr Bs insurance cost £462.  Mr Bs insurance renewed automatically each year.  
He assumed that RSA was a reputable company and offered fair and reasonable prices, 
even if he didnt expect  them  to necessarily be the cheapest on the market.
In 2018, the renewal quote was for £744.  At this time, Mr B spoke to RSA about  amending  
his cover and was offered a quote  for a new policy. That quote was for £182. Mr B then 
complained that RSA had taken advantage of his loyalty by unreasonably increasing  his 
premiums each year.
RSA said the premiums it had charged Mr B had been calculated correctly  to reflect the 
policy he held and the cover that was being  provided.  The original policy  provided  unlimited 
cover, including for Mr Bs high value items. But RSA said the new policy  had a sum insured 
of just £100,000 with valuables only covered  up to £7,500. It said the new policy  was also 
underwritten differently, and along  with a new business discount, all of this combined  to 
make it much less expensive. 
However, because  Mr B was a longstanding customer RSA offered to refund the difference  
between the price of his new policy,  and what hed paid for the original policy in the previous 
year  so, RSA paid Mr B £590  as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B was not satisfied  with this. He would like a refund  of all the premiums he paid over the 
years that were more  than a new customer wouldve been charged. 
Following our involvement, RSA offered an additional settlement of £682  taking its total 
offer of settlement to £1,272, including what it had already paid. Our investigator thought this 
was a fair and reasonable way to resolve  the complaint. 
Mr B didnt accept the offer. He said he didnt  think the increase in premiums was due to any 
legitimate business  cost or change in risk. He thinks RSA simply took advantage  of him to 
help it offer cheaper  policies for new customers. As such, Ive been  asked  to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr B fairly 
throughout the period  he held its insurance  policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mr B fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be fair 
and, in this case,  whether I think what RSA has offered  is fair.
Ref: DRN98554232An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
Mr B took out his policy in 1999. Since then, the price increased  by a relatively small amount 
each year, except  2001 when it decreased 10%,  and 2002 when there was no change  in 
price. 
RSA has given us a lot of information about how it decided how much  to charge Mr B for his 
policy. Im afraid I cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but I would like to assure 
Mr B that Ive carefully  considered what RSA has provided.
From what  Ive seen, for the most part it doesnt  look like RSA was increasing Mr Bs 
premiums unfairly. It has shown there were changes in its rates, its view of the risk of 
insuring Mr Bs contents and its understanding of future likely  claims. These  are all fair 
reasons for RSA to increase the premium.  
However, Im not persuaded that this fully accounts for all of the increases. So, I think  it is 
fair that RSA refund some  of the premiums  that Mr B paid, to put him as close  as possible to 
the position hed have  been in if nothing had gone wrong. Having considered  all the 
available evidence, including  what Mr B has said, Im satisfied that RSAs overall offer of 
settlement does this. Which is why I think it is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this 
complaint. 
Mr B ultimately took out a new policy with RSA which was much cheaper.  So, I fully 
understand why this has made him think he was treated unfairly.  But insurers often include 
discounts in order  to obtain new customers, and I understand that was the case with his new 
policy. That means  he may well have been paying less than the true cost of providing  the 
new policy. 
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same. They have different levels  of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. RSA 
has pointed to some of the differences between the two policies which  led to the price 
differing so much. And ultimately, just because  Mr Bs original policy  with RSA cost a lot 
more than his new policy  that doesnt mean  the amount charged was unfair.
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These didnt exist when Mr B took out his policy with RSA and even  if they had, 
they dont go as far as to say insurers need  to tell their customers  about alternative  products. 
So, I dont think RSA needed to tell him when a newer product was introduced. However, I 
can see that since at least 2015  RSA mentioned on Mr Bs renewal invitations that it did 
have other  products available that could  save him money. 
Having considered all the available evidence,  including what Mr B has said, Ive decided  that 
RSAs offer of settlement  is a fair and reasonable way to resolve  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN98554233my final decision
Ive decided that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs offer of settlement is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should now 
pay Mr B £682 in settlement of this complaint.  That is on top of the £590 it has already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9855423