K820x#14Complaint
Mr S brings this complaint on behalf of I Limited, of which he is a director.  He complains,  in 
summary, about several aspects of the process  and, in particular, the rate of exchange  
which Santander UK plc applied  to an international payment. 
Background
On Friday 22 June  2018, Mr S phoned Santander about making a substantial  USD  payment 
from I Limiteds sterling bank account  to an overseas supplier.  Amongst  other things, he 
was told he could not make the payment on-line and that, after he had completed the 
instruction but before  the transfer  was made,  he would receive a call to confirm  everything.
Later that same day, Mr S had an email exchange with the bank  which contradicted  some  
of the information he had previously been given.  In  its email the bank explained that Mr S 
would have to make the payment instruction online,  that he would receive an indicative 
exchange rate in advance, and that he would only learn of the actual exchange rate once 
the payment had been sent.   That message  did not mention a call back prior to completion.
On the following Monday  afternoon, 25 June 2018,  Mr S completed  an international payment 
instruction with Santander.  He did so having been given an indicative exchange rate by the 
bank of 1.31  and, later that afternoon,  he learned that the payment  had been  made  with an 
exchange rate of 1.313532.  
Mr S phoned  Santander very shortly afterwards to say, amongst  other  things, that he had not 
expected the transaction to have been  completed  without receiving a phone call from the 
bank, and the exchange rate was unsatisfactory.  The GBP/USD market rate at that time 
was very much  higher than the rate I Limited had received.  He had anticipated an exchange 
rate at, or very close to, the market rate.  Mr S also tried to cancel the payment, but 
Santander said it was too late to do so, and he subsequently made  a claim for the difference 
in cost to I Limited  arising from receiving a lower-than-anticipated exchange  rate  which he 
estimated to be a little over £900.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded, in summary:
-Although Santander  gave  Mr S conflicting  information on 22 June about whether the 
payment had to be made on-line or over the phone he did, in the event, follow the correct  
process (because I Limited  wasnt signed up for phone banking).
-Santander had made it clear  to Mr S before he made the transfer on 25 June that it did 
not use the market  rate for foreign exchange  transactions but, instead, applied  its own 
rates.  The investigator was satisfied that, in using its own exchange rate, the bank had 
not acted unreasonably.
-The bank  had also made it clear, on Monday 25 June, what  the indicative exchange rate 
was and that it would not provide Mr S with the actual  exchange  rate until after the 
transaction had been completed.
The investigator noted that Santander  had already paid I Limited £25 (as a goodwill 
payment) for not having initially provided the full recordings Mr S had asked for.  But  beyond  
that he did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S did not accept that  
and, in asking  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, said Santander  had:
Ref: DRN95022372-Failed to provide adequate and accurate  information to complete the transaction,  
including not disclosing  an accurate  exchange  rate.
-Forced him down an obscure, misleading,  and unclear  process  hampering  his efforts to 
establish the facts  he needed, and so had not given him a chance to provide his 
informed consent  and agreement.
-Provided flagged  warnings that conflicted  with other information he had received, and 
caused I Limited to suffer a consequential  loss of at least £928.12.
Mr S subsequently said that, had he known of the actual rate that would be applied  (by way 
of the expected phone call) he would instead have  undertaken the transaction  through  a 
different business   one which would routinely apply a foreign exchange margin of around 
1.5 to 1.8 pips,  not the 132.2 pips applied by Santander. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that Mr S initially received conflicting process  information  from Santander   
chiefly because,  to being with, the bank explained  it as if I Limited had phone banking.  But, 
because it didnt, the process  set out in the email Mr S received after the phone  call was the 
correct one  and it was the one which Mr S then followed.  So, whilst I agree that the 
provision of conflicting information was unfortunate, I do not accept that  by the time Mr S 
went ahead  with the transaction  the correct process had not been  clarified  by the bank.
Amongst other things, that correct process  provided  for the bank to give Mr S an indicative  
exchange rate in advance   but (as it had set out by email the previous Friday) the 
transaction would  be completed before it provided  the actual exchange rate.  Again, 
I consider that Santander made  this sufficiently clear in advance  of Mr S starting the 
process.  So I do not accept that it was reasonable for Mr S then to say he should have 
received a call from the bank about,  in particular, the exchange rate  because  the process 
which had been  clarified to him the previous  Friday  did not say that that would happen.
Mr S went  ahead on the basis of an indicative exchange rate of 1.31.  He has explained that, 
at the time, the market rate for GBP/USD transfers was in the order  of 1.3269   and his 
claim is based on that higher rate.  But, in my view,  this approach  and analysis raises a 
number of difficulties.   Firstly, it seems unlikely that, having quoted an indicative rate of 1.31, 
the banks actual rate would differ to such a degree that it would be at (or very close  to) the 
market rate which Mr S already appears  to have been aware of.  In addition,  and whilst I do 
recognise that finer margins can be obtained  from others, a margin of fewer than 2 pips is 
extremely tight  and very far away from Santanders c130 pips for a transfer of this size.
In all the circumstances, therefore  and after very careful consideration  I find that Mr S 
went ahead  with the transaction knowing the indicative rate and having fairly been told by 
Santander that he would only be given the actual exchange rate after the payment had been 
made.  In light of this, I do not accept that it would be appropriate  for me to require 
Santander to meet the claim he has put forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  I Limiteds  complaint.
Ref: DRN95022373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
I Limited, to accept or reject my decision  before 16 February 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9502237