K821x#15complaint
Mr O says he was given  poor advice by Insight Financial Associates  Limited  (Insight), 
resulting in a significant proportion of his pension  fund being put into an unsuitable  
structured investment. This happened  when he switched from a personal pension  plan into a 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
background
Mr O had a personal pension with Skandia. In March 2011 he sought advice from Insight 
about his retirement  plans. It conducted a financial review and made  recommendations.
At the time of the advice Mr O was 48 and his pension fund with Skandia was worth around  
£140k. His aim was to grow his pot to at least £200k by his 55th birthday. At that point he 
wanted to be able to consider accessing his tax-free cash (TFC). So, his investment horizon 
was just over 6 years.
Mr O was a self-employed  builder  and he and his wife earned around £60,000 each a year. 
They had three dependent  children.  Mr Os attitude  to risk was noted as medium. His main  
priority in retirement was to maintain his standard of living.
During the financial review process  Insight says Mr O expressed  a specific  interest  in buying 
bank shares, as well as putting  his money into structured investments. He wasnt able 
access these sorts  of assets  through his then pension arrangements.
Insight provided Mr O with a financial planning  report in April 2011.  This recommended  that 
he switch his personal pension into a SIPP with London Colonial.  This was to give him more  
options for investing his funds.
Insight recommended Mr O put around 50% of his funds in the RBS Autopilot, a capital 
protected structured  investment for a fixed term of five and a half years.  A further  20% was 
invested in two FTSE related structured products. The remaining fund was kept in cash to 
enable him to secure the banking shares  he wanted.
In the autumn of 2014 Mr O engaged a new independent financial adviser (IFA) and she 
raised concerns  about the suitability  of the Autopilot  investment. After  the plan matured in 
2016 he complained about  the advice hed been  given. He said the product had been too 
complex for him to understand and so he didnt think it had been  suitable
Insight said Mr O had invested in three structured funds. It noted hed only complained  about  
the Autopilot investment  which hadnt produced a return on his capital. It said there could 
never be guarantees about how investments would perform. And it questioned why as soon 
as his new IFA had identified an issue with Autopilot he hadnt moved his funds.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Os case. He said that, while he thought  Mr O had probably 
wanted to invest  along the lines Insight recommended, he believed it had a duty of care in 
the advice it gave about investment. He concluded the Autopilot product wasnt  suitable for 
him. Insight  disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and so Mr Os complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN92028812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. Im upholding Mr Os 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The first thing I need to consider is the extensive regulatory framework  around transactions 
like those performed by Insight. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory landscape  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework and must always  be complied with by 
regulated firms. As such, I need  to have regard to them  in deciding this case.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?  Of course, 
each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers  best interests to 
make the advice suitable.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr O in order to understand  essential  facts about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pension pot into a SIPP  and invest in the way it 
recommended, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Os investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr O was able to financially withstand  the investment  risks.
-Mr O had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Ive considered the testimony of both parties.  Ive also read the various  documents available 
from the time that events happened. This includes  the financial review of Mr Os 
circumstances; an assessment of his risk appetite; the financial planning report  with Insights 
recommendations; and the investment product  literature.
Ref: DRN92028813Mr Os thoughts about his then pension  provision were captured in the financial planning 
report:
you have been pleased with the returns from your existing Skandia Collective Retirement 
Account since commencement, however, you are nervous about recent market volatility and 
for your own 'peace of mind' you switched your funds into the cash  deposit account to 'wait 
and see'.
You now want to access other investment asset types such as direct shares and structured 
investments. You appreciate that you cannot access these types of investment options  via 
your existing Skandia plan.
Mr O seems to have  had a clear desire  to purchase some bank shares, which he 
subsequently did using the cash reserve in his SIPP. And while he told us he wasnt sure if 
he even knew what structured investments were,  I think its more  likely than not these sorts 
of products were discussed with him and he was interested in what they could offer.
I say this because  these products seem to have  been a good  fit with Mr Os requirements at 
the time.  For example, his investment horizon was short/medium term to take him up to the 
age of 55. I think the capital guarantee aspect wouldve been of interest   we know  he took 
action with his former  fund to move it into cash to protect  it from market  volatility. But he was 
also aware his pension pot was losing real value, so he was looking for alternatives to 
secure a reasonable return to grow his fund.
I think its more likely than not Mr O had the key features of structured investments in mind 
when he sought  advice. But I dont think he wouldve known which  structured products he 
wanted to invest  in. And thats where  he relied on Insights recommendations.
The Autopilot structured investment, which is the product Mr O is complaining about, was 
recommended to provide a low/medium risk component in his portfolio. It accounted for 
50% of his funds,  so I think it was important that he understood the product and why it was 
suitable for his needs.
I dont have a verbatim record of the conversations between Mr O and Insight about the 
investments he ended up agreeing to. So, Ive reviewed the documentation available from 
the time he received the advice. Ive read the financial planning review and report since  
these should capture  the key discussions.  But I cant see that Insight explained why the 
Autopilot product was specifically a good  fit for Mr O given his objectives,  nor how it worked  
and therefore  the benefits and risks associated with it.
Insight did give Mr O a brochure which explained  how Autopilot  worked. Heres  an extract:
The RBS Autopilot Index is designed, owned and maintained by RBS. The Index uses  rules  
based techniques to monitor four market sectors (see box opposite  for the sectors). Where 
these techniques  indicate that a particular sector is rising, the Index  will link that portion 
(25%) to the performance  of the sector. Where  these  techniques  indicate  that a particular 
sector is falling, the Index will instead link that portion to UK performance of the UK Retail 
Price Index
Ref: DRN92028814At the beginning of each month the Index  determines  whether  the market  trend  of each 
market sector is rising  or falling. It does  this by comparing the average performance of the 
market sector over the last year against the current level of the market sector.  If the average  
level of the market sector is greater than the current level, then that market sector is 
considered to be falling. If the average  level of the market sector is lower UK the current  
level, then that market sector is considered to be rising.
For each market sector that is rising,  25% of the Autopilot Index will reflect  the performance 
of that particular market  sector. You should be aware that the growth  of any market  sector  is 
capped at a maximum of 7% per month. For each  market sector that is falling, 25% of the 
Index will move its exposure from that market sector and will be measured against  the UK 
Retail Price Index instead.
Therefore the Index could be measured against  any combination of one, two, three or all 
four of the market sectors (in multiples  of 25%) if one or more  of the market sectors are 
deemed to be rising with the remainder measured  against the UK Retail  Price  Index. 
Conversely, 100% of the Index could be measured against the UK Retail Price Index if all 
market sectors were  falling.
So, Autopilots performance was linked to four market  sectors which could be volatile. These 
were the developed equity market; emerging equity market; property; and commodities.  The 
way it worked didnt exactly mirror these indices. The idea was to move into given markets 
when the prospect of an upside seemed likely and move out and into cash  when the 
performance was showing  a downward  trend. But there was a risk that it might  not work out 
as it was intended.
For example, if the strategy had determined a particular market sector was in a rising trend 
then 25% of Mr Os investment was linked to that market index instead  of remaining in cash. 
If the index  actually fell in value he wouldve incurred  a loss by moving  out of cash.  Similarly, 
if the strategy had determined that a market  sector was in a falling trend  and the 
performance of 25% of his investment was linked to cash instead  of that market sector, then 
Mr O would lose out if subsequently it did well.
Autopilot had a capped upside  but unlimited downside (albeit with a guarantee at the end of 
the term for the initial capital invested). This together with the volatility of the market sectors 
selected and the way the investment lagged the relevant indices meant there was a risk that 
it may produce little or no growth despite  locking in the money for five and a half years. I 
dont think this risk was adequately brought to Mr Os notice  in the financial planning  report  
nor in the product material.
I note that Insight made the following assessment of Mr Os financial experience:
Although you are not a particularly  experienced investor you understand the concept of 
investment risk and understand the level of risk we have agreed.
I can also see that Mr Os new IFA said:
I am chartered financial planner  and I struggle to understand how the [Autopilot]  
index operates, or the underlying investment principle, process and rationale on which 
it is based.
Ref: DRN92028815Overall, Im of the view that Mr O wasnt a sophisticated investor or experienced enough to 
understand the complex way in which his Autopilot investment worked.  From what  Ive seen 
Im not persuaded the risks associated with it were  adequately explained to him. And its 
significant that half of his funds were invested  in this product.
Mr O was looking to invest his funds  for a better  return. It seems it was important that his 
capital was protected and that he could  also enjoy  reasonable growth. Given his objectives, I 
think that had the risks associated with Autopilot been clearly  explained  to him, its more 
likely than not he wouldnt have  opted  to invest in it.
Mr O hasnt complained about  the other  two structured products he was invested in. Insight 
says this was because they performed well. But I think theres  a material  difference between 
Autopilot and the other products. They appear  to be more straight-forward. And I think he 
wouldve better understood  how they worked  and the risks associated  with them.
Insight also argues that as Mr O received  advice  from a new IFA  as I understand it in the 
autumn of 2014   thats when he became  aware there might have been a problem  with his 
Autopilot investment. It says from that point he shouldve taken steps to mitigate his position.  
For example, he couldve  moved his funds and invested elsewhere.
Theres merit in Insights  argument here.  We would generally expect consumers to make an 
effort to mitigate losses  whenever  they become aware of problems. However, in this case I 
note the investment made in Autopilot  was for a fixed  term. And the product documentation 
says:
The Plan is designed  as a five and a half year fixed term investment. However,  if your 
situation changes, you can get your money  out early, although you could get back  less than 
you originally invested. It depends  on the current value as determined  by RBS.  If you do take 
some of your money out this will affect  what you get back at the end of the fixed term.
When Mr O sought advice  on his pension arrangements from an IFA. She reviewed the 
status of his Autopilot investment. She confirmed its value was based on an index, so its 
opening level in 2011 had been 100. At the time of her advice in 2014 this had fallen  to 
93.55. She advised the following about  an early  exit from the investment:
at the moment you would be crystallising  a loss whereas if you hold the plan to maturity 
your original investment  would be returned.
It seems  to me this was rationale and reasonable advice.  And by acting on it Mr O did try to 
mitigate his losses.
putting things right
As Im upholding Mr Os complaint my aim is to put him back  in the same position - or as 
close as reasonably possible  as that he wouldve been in now if hed been given suitable 
advice. 
I think its more likely than not Mr O wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say 
precisely how. But Im satisfied what Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable basis to work 
from given Mr Os circumstances and objectives  when he invested:
-Mr O wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
Ref: DRN92028816-We think the average for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. We think its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher 
return. 
-Mr O's risk profile was between these two investment  appetites. He was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to achieve  his investment objectives. So, a 50/50 spilt would 
reasonably reflect  that position. It doesnt  mean he wouldve  invested in this way for 
certain. Rather, I consider this a proxy for the sort of return he couldve obtained from 
investments suited to his objectives and risk appetite.
-Mr O should also receive interest for being  deprived  of the use of any monies due, 
between the date he shouldve had those  funds and when Insight settles 
compensation.
So, Insight  needs  to do the following:
Compare the actual performance of Mr O's investment in Autopilot with what it wouldve 
been using the fair benchmark  Ive set out above (the 50/50 split between  fixed rate bonds 
and the relevant FTSE index). 
For bonds, the approach is to use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 
to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates  should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
The start date for the calculation is 1 June  2011  and the end date 8 December 2016 (the 
maturity date for the Autopilot  investment). 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are lots of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, Ill accept if Insight totals  all those  payments  and deducts that figure  at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
If the resulting fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable to Mr O. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation is 
payable.
Insight should  add 8% simple interest  a year to any calculated loss from 9 December 2016 
until it settles.*
If theres a loss, Insight  should pay into Mr Os pension  plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  
Ref: DRN92028817Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If Insight is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Os pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. So, the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Os actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr O wouldve  been able to take TFC, the reduction  should be applied  to 
75% of the compensation.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight  deducts income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Insight should  give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Trouble and upset
Mr O has been caused inconvenience as a result of Insights actions. In recognition  of the 
disruption caused it should pay him £200  for trouble and upset.
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding this complaint.  I require Insight Financial 
Associates Limited  to pay Mr O the redress Ive set in the section about  putting things right.  
Insight Financial Associates Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr O in a 
clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202881