K820x#14Complaint
Ms S complains  on her parents behalf about  a number  of matters relating to the joint 
accounts they held until relatively recently with The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS).
Background
Ms Ss parents gave her permission to manage their accounts via general powers of 
attorney which  they registered with the bank. And theyve also given their explicit  permission 
for her to bring this complaint on their behalf. Ms S says, in summary, that:
The amount  of interest  thats  been  charged on her parents joint Select current  account 
overdrafts is inconsistent  and incorrect.
There was a period  of time when RBS wouldnt allow her to manage  the accounts  by 
phone.
RBS harassed her parents. They insisted on a branch-based  meeting  to discuss the 
accounts and threatened closure if the meeting didnt  take place. 
A relationship manager should  have  been  allocated given that her parents were party to 
RBSs private banking service.
RBS didnt deal appropriately with her enquiries about a division  of the bank  being  
divested.
RBS hasnt always replied to the complaints  shes  made on her parents behalf.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS had done  anything  wrong. But Ms S disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will come as a disappointment to Ms S and her parents, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as the investigator, for much the same reasons. I dont  think  RBS has acted 
unfairly in relation to the matters summarised  above  and Ill explain why.
But first I should say that the complaint weve been  asked to consider has evolved 
somewhat since Ms S first got in touch with us in October 2017. And one of the things she 
complained about latterly  was the banks  decision  to close her parents  accounts. The 
investigator who handled this complaint corresponded with RBS and Ms S on that particular 
point and tried to help them reach a mutually  agreeable  repayment plan. But, ultimately, that 
later complaint, which included the events leading up to the account closures, was split out 
from this one and dealt with separately. So I havent  considered those issues as part of this 
complaint.
Has RBS fairly calculated  the debit interest  on the overdrawn account balances?
Ms S hasnt pointed to specific incidents  when the wrong amount of interest was charged,  
her concerns  seem to have been  formed  more  generally by comparing the amounts charged 
from month to month and between the various  accounts with which she is involved. Ive 
similarly considered this point more generally.
Ive also borne in mind  that the Select  account terms and conditions explain interest is 
calculated on the daily overdrawn balance and will be charged once a month, a set period of 
Ref: DRN92920812time after the end of the relevant charging period. And Im aware thats fairly standard  across  
the banking industry.  The banks records indicate the same rate of interest has been  
charged on the accounts for many  years.  And its my understanding the monthly  interest 
calculation is an automated process. Ive taken all of this into account and can see the 
investigator performed  some example, approximate calculations  using  these parameters and 
came up with figures very close to what was actually charged.
Overall Ive not seen  enough to make me question further how the interest on Ms Ss 
parents accounts  was calculated. So I cant fairly  conclude that the bank has done anything 
wrong in this respect or should refund any of the charges.
Has RBS denied  Ms S fair access to the accounts?
Ms S says RBS refused  to let her discuss her parents accounts over the phone. But Ive 
seen little to support this assertion and, in fact, have listened to a number of calls when 
matters relating to the various  accounts  that Ms S manages were  discussed. 
Having said that, in some of the calls Ms S became quite frustrated and, on occasion,  this 
meant the bank was unable to help her. She also admits that her relationship  with the bank 
broke down  some time before she got in touch  with us about  this complaint (in October 
2017). So its possible,  as she says,  the bank refused to let her manage the accounts over 
the phone  at some point.
But whats  also apparent  is that Ms S has been  able to access  and manage  her parents 
accounts online. And she hasnt pointed to any specific,  individual  incidents when the banks 
alleged refusal  to discuss matters over the phone has prevented her from doing  what  she 
wanted with the accounts.
In the circumstances I cant say the bank has unfairly limited Ms Ss access  to her parents 
accounts or has caused her parents to suffer any financial loses  by refusing to deal with her 
over the phone.
Has RBS harassed Ms Ss parents?
As Ive already  said, this complaint has evolved  somewhat  since  Ms S first came to us. One 
of her more  recent concerns involved RBS trying  to arrange a branch-based meeting to 
discuss her parents accounts. Letters were  sent by the bank addressed to her and her 
parents about  this. 
I dont think it was inappropriate  of the bank  to ask for this meeting given the activity on the 
accounts. I agree with Ms S that the accounts  were  being managed within  their authorised 
overdraft limits but the bank still had, I think,  understandable concerns. Overdrafts  arent 
intended to be used for long-term borrowing and the account with the larger overdraft limit, in 
particular, wasnt being used in the way the bank  would  normally  expect or tolerate. The 
activity tended to be limited to monthly  credits  sufficient only to cover  the overdraft interest. 
And little, if anything,  was being  done  towards  reducing the debt.
Ms S seems to have concerns that her parents  were  contacted at all given that she has a 
general power of attorney in place for each  of them. But this type of arrangement  is used 
really for convenience  and theres  nothing  to suggest her parents lacked the mental capacity 
or were unable in some  other way to discuss or manage their own accounts. The overdraft 
debts were held in their names and were their responsibility to repay.  So I dont think its 
Ref: DRN92920813unreasonable for the bank  to have tried to involve them in discussions about repayment  of 
those debts.
Overall, I dont  think it was wrong of RBS to make  contact in the way it did and/or try to 
arrange a meeting with Mrs Ss parents to talk things  through.
Did Ms Ss parents have a private banking arrangement?
RBS currently offers a premier banking service with one of the benefits  being a premier  
banking manager  to help with your financial plans or guide you through  more complex 
decisions. This seems akin to the private banking service Ms S has referred to and which  
she thinks means should have given her access to a relationship manager.
Theres some indication  that Ms S might have  been  party to a private  banking  arrangement  
at some point in time. I can certainly  see shes had a number of conversations  with RBSs 
private banking  team.  But the bank says eligibility for a relationship or premier  banking 
manager has changed over the years. And, from what Ive seen, the type of accounts  her 
parents held and the way theyve been operated in recent years means they werent  eligible 
for private/premier banking.
In the circumstances I dont think Ms Ss parents (and, thereby Ms S) should have been 
allocated a premier  banking manager. 
Should RBS have done more in relation to Ms Ss enquiries about the proposed divestment?
Ms S hasnt been  specific about the problems she experienced when RBS originally got in 
touch with regards  to the divestment of one of their divisions. All shes  really said is that it 
was handled poorly. Weve  invited her to elaborate on this but she hasnt  done  so, so theres 
little I can usefully say without more detail about  her concerns
Having said that, I can see RBS dealt with a complaint related to this point in February 2017. 
There seems  to have been  a problem with information Ms S was provided about which 
accounts would be affected by the divestment. The banks  notes  indicate  she was given  
incorrect information but they corrected  this, it seems, fairly promptly after she raised her 
concerns. And the divestment didnt take place in the end.
In the circumstances I dont think that RBS needs  to do anything more.
Has RBS failed  to progress Ms Ss complaints?
In her response to the investigator, Ms S said RBS has repeatedly  failed to follow  due 
process when she raised complaints. She talks about there being factual evidence of this, 
but didnt provide any other detail. 
Ive listened to quite a number of calls between RBS and Ms S and I can see she often 
asked them not to raise a complaint and, instead,  deal with her concerns as an informal  
enquiry. And she became frustrated when the bank insisted that, what  she felt were, 
enquiries must be escalated to their complaints/care team. Ms S indicated she preferred for 
most mattes to be dealt with by the banks frontline call-centre. 
Ref: DRN92920814Its for the bank to decide how it deals with enquiries  that cant  be solved by frontline  staff. 
And Ive not heard  or seen anything which makes  me think RBS failed to progress  
complaints that Ms S has made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision   on behalf  of her parents  before 26 August 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292081