K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mr R1 are unhappy with the amount  of compensation Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) 
has offered to settle their complaint about  a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
In April 1989 Mr R and Mr R1 jointly took out a loan for £5,000.00 which  was repaid over 66 
months. At the same  time they were  sold a PPI policy which  was paid for by a monthly  
premium of £7.53 and this was paid for the full time the loan was being repaid. The loan was 
fully repaid in November  1994.
Mr R and Mr R1 complained to BoS that the PPI had been mis-sold. BoS upheld  the 
complaint and offered compensation of £1,388.85 after tax. Mr R and Mr R1 didnt think  this 
was enough compensation and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they thought what BoS had offered to settle the complaint was fair. 
Mr R and Mr R1 didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS had agreed  that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this decision  Im not looking at how the 
policy came  to be sold to Mr R and Mr R1, Im only considering if the amount of 
compensation offered to settle their complaint is fair.
When a business  has mis-sold a PPI policy we expect that as far as possible it puts the 
consumer in the position they would have been in if the policy had never  been  sold. That 
means refunding  all the costs paid for the policy and also paying  some compensatory  
interest for any time a consumer may have been out of pocket.
In the case of Mr R and Mr R1 they paid monthly premiums for the PPI whilst  the loan 
repayments were being  made. The monthly cost was £7.53 and this was paid for 66 months. 
So Mr R and Mr R1 paid a total of £496.88 for the PPI. As the premium  was not an amount 
that was added to the loan Mr R and Mr R1 took out, there was no interest charged on it.
But as Mr R and Mr R1 were out of pocket  for the premiums they should get some 
compensation for not having the use of the money. The rate considered fair, and which has 
in the past been used by the courts, is 8% simple interest per year.
Whilst the premiums were being  paid Mr R and Mr R1 should get 8% simple  interest  on 
every premium from the date it was paid to the date of settlement  which is when the 
money is paid back to them. So from the date the loan was cleared in November 1994 to the 
date of settlement  they get 8% simple interest each year on any amount they were  out of 
pocket.
BoS has taken  this approach to working out the 8% simple interest and at the time of the 
offer it meant in total Mr R and Mr R1 should get £1,114.88 compensatory  interest before tax 
was deducted.  BoS is obliged to deduct tax at basic rate from the compensatory interest by 
Ref: DRN94589842HM Revenue and Customs. Mr R and Mr R1 can request that BoS provides a certificate  in 
relation to this if it is needed.
After the tax was deducted from the 8% simple compensatory interest, it left £891.90. This 
amount plus the premiums paid for the PPI of £496.98 gave a total of £1,388.88 as the 
compensation due to Mr R and Mr R1.
I have taken account of the comments submitted on behalf of Mr R and Mr R1 about  the 
amount of compensation. Every PPI policy has to be considered on the individual facts  
relating to that policy and the type of product with which  it was taken out. Some  PPI policies 
taken out with loans are paid for a single premium which  is added  to the loan so cause 
interest to be paid on the premium. Some PPI policies are paid for, as here,  by a monthly 
premium separate  to the loan and so no interest  is caused  by the premium. The actual  PPI 
cost, to work  out the compensation due, has to be looked at on the facts  of each case.
I can see that BoS sent a cheque for £1,388.88  to Mr R and Mr R1 in January 2019. I 
understand that Mr R and Mr R1 have not cashed the cheque.   If the cheque  remains 
uncashed, BoS should recalculate the 8% simple interest to bring it up to date ensure the 
correct compensation  is paid to Mr R and Mr R1. But other  than that update calculation, I am 
not telling  BoS to do anything further.  
I think that BoS has worked out the compensation due of £496.98 for the premiums paid plus 
8% simple  compensatory interest as I would expect and this is fair compensation to settle  
the complaint  of Mr R and Mr R1.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out, I think what Bank of Scotland plc has worked out as the 
compensation due for the mis-sold policy Mr R and Mr R1 took out with their loan is fair. 
Other than updating  the 8% simple  interest,  I am not telling Bank of Scotland  plc to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mr R1 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9458984