K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2005 via a postal  application. Mrs O says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs O ticked and signed on the credit agreement to specifically indicate that she wanted 
PPI  which was described  on the form as being optional.  So I think  Capital One made it 
clear that Mrs O didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
Capital One didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs O got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs O has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
Ref: DRN99333292But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9933329