K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he financed through LeasePlan  UK Limited (LeasePlan) was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. Hed like them to provide a replacement car.
background
In November 2017 Mr P took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with LeasePlan but he soon experienced problems with the car. It was back  at 
the dealership  between  December and January as it needed repairs  and in May 2018 the 
gearbox and drive shaft failed. The subsequent  repair  didnt work either and Mr P had to 
take the car back  for further work.
At this point LeasePlan accepted that the car theyd supplied hadnt been  of satisfactory 
quality. They said theyd  therefore allow Mr P to reject the car and terminate his finance deal 
with them  and they offered to return his deposit as well. But Mr P didnt want  to proceed with 
the termination of the agreement as he was happy with it. Instead  he wanted LeasePlan to 
replace the car for him. But LeasePlan wouldnt agree to that so Mr P referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think LeasePlan needed to offer a replacement  vehicle. She thought 
that would  put Mr P in a better position than he wouldve  been  if the car hadnt  been faulty at 
the point of supply and she didnt  think that was right.  She said there  had been enough 
evidence to merit the rejection of the vehicle but as Mr P didnt  want to do that she 
considered whether LeasePlan  should pay him any compensation. She thought  it was clear 
that Mr P had been inconvenienced by the situation and she therefore suggested LeasePlan 
pay him £200 in recognition of that but she explained that, if he sought  to reject the vehicle in 
the future,  LeasePlan  would be right to consider  the process of rejection would start again  
at the beginning.
LeasePlan agreed with the adjudicators view but suggested they provide vouchers  to that 
value to be used  in some major high street stores. But Mr P didnt agree and he asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think LeasePlan  have  done  enough  here to resolve the situation but having 
considered the adjudicators suggested  redress  I think thats  a reasonable way forward.  I 
know that may disappoint Mr P so please  let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN94704652Mr P acquired his car under a hire agreement. The relevant law says that the car should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then LeasePlan is responsible.  I 
take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask LeasePlan to 
put this right.  
Here there is no dispute that the car was not of acceptable quality at the point of supply and 
whilst the law allows LeasePlan one opportunity to repair a fault its clear that repairs  were 
unsuccessful and I think LeasePlan were  therefore  right to allow him to reject the vehicle and 
to endeavour  to put him back in the position  he would have been in if he hadnt entered  into 
the agreement  with them.
But they didnt  need to put Mr P in a better  position and I think if he received a new car now,  
more than a year into his agreement, then they would be putting him in a better  position.  So 
LeasePlan dont  need  to do that.
But they do need to consider the inconvenience  this has put Mr P to and I think they 
therefore need to compensate Mr P. Hes had the car into the dealership on several  
occasions and it must  have been  frustrating to find the repairs were  unsuccessful.  Thats 
certainly impaired  his use and I therefore  agree with the adjudicator  that compensation is 
due and I think in the circumstances £200  is reasonable.
But I dont think its reasonable to limit that compensation to vouchers. That seems an 
unnecessary restriction.
LeasePlan have  explained that if Mr P wants to reject the vehicle in the future hed have to 
start from the beginning. They didnt explain what that meant but Id expect  them to be 
considering that if Mr P accepts this resolution  of his case, and subsequently seeks  to reject 
the car because it develops further  faults, they would consider the faults  that have been 
reviewed under this complaint to be closed  and only consider new issues.  
That would make it difficult  for Mr P to reject the car in the future as hed have to 
demonstrate any faults he claimed were there from the point of supply and this, of course,  
becomes increasingly  more difficult as time progresses. However, if the car is now 
functioning well, it may not be a concern  to Mr P. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell LeasePlan UK Limited  to 
pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions have 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
Ref: DRN94704653ombudsman
Ref: DRN9470465