K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (then trading as Egg) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with a credit  card in 2002.
background
Egg was an internet based account. Ms C applied online  for her credit card with PPI via the 
Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms C is mainly  concerned  that she didnt know she had PPI on her account and she says it 
was added without  her knowledge.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. 
I think Egg made Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Ms C completed she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and her application  wouldve  continued without PPI being  
included if shed done that. 
On balance, I find Ms C knew she had a choice about protecting her repayments  and the 
PPI was added to her account when she indicated she wanted  it. 
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
But it still shouldve given  Ms C enough  information  to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for her. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide  if this made any overall 
difference to Ms C. 
Ive taken into account what Ms C has told us about her financial circumstances. The policy  
wouldve protected her if shed lost her job as well as paying out if she was disabled or too 
sick to work. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. And it wouldve cleared her 
card balance if shed  been off work  for 12 months in a row. 
It doesnt look like Ms C had any other  ways  to pay her credit  card if she wasn't  able to work. 
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So I think Ms C couldve  benefitted  from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Ms C wouldve been caught  by any of the conditions  which  limited  the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, I dont  think that knowing  more  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  made any difference to Ms Cs decision to take it out. 
Ref: DRN95089822Next to where Ms C was asked to decide about  the PPI on the application she completed, 
the purpose of the cover  is broadly described,  the cost is set out and theres  some  
information about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Ms C with the protection  broadly 
described on the website which shed indicated  she was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the policy  was unaffordable for her.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Ms C still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular  situation.  And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-
sold.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Ms C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays Bank UK PLC should  also 
pay back to Ms C any extra interest she paid because of that. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay back to Ms C the extra  she paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Barclays  Bank UK PLC should  also pay Ms C 8%* simple interest on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms C can claim back the tax 
if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms C any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9508982