K820x#14complaint
Ms H, Mr K and Mr K, representing the estate  of their late mother Mrs K, complain that 
Landmark Mortgages Limited  charged  too high an interest rate on her mortgage.
background
Mrs K took out her mortgage with Landmark  almost 20 years  ago. In 2005, she took out a 
five-year fixed rate. When that rate expired in 2010, her mortgage  moved  to Landmarks 
standard variable  rate (SVR), which was later reduced by a discount of 0.25%.
Mrs Ks mortgage stayed on the SVR or the discounted SVR from 2010 onwards. The SVR 
didnt change until the Bank  of England base rate changed in 2016, 2017 and 2018, when it 
changed by the same amount base  rate by which moved.
Mrs K complained about the interest rate. She said she thought she was a mortgage  
prisoner. Shed tried to move her mortgage  elsewhere but as she didnt want to borrow more 
money or change the term of her mortgage she wasnt able to. She thought the interest rate 
of her mortgage was too high in relation to base  rate, and it wasnt  fair she wasnt able to 
take out any new interest rate products.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Sadly, while he was considering  it Mrs K 
passed away. Her sons and daughter, as the executors of her estate, are continuing with it 
and have asked  for it to be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me first say how sorry I was to hear that Mrs K has recently passed away,  and I hope  
Ms H, Mr K and Mr K will accept my condolences to their whole family. 
I understand how important this complaint  was to Mrs K, and her determination  in pursuing it 
even after she became unwell, and I understand what it means to Ms H, Mr K and Mr K to 
continue with it on her behalf now. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mrs K said about her mortgage, as well as the mortgage 
documents and the terms and conditions.
Mrs Ks mortgage was originally with Northern Rock. When  that firm collapsed and was 
bailed out by the government, her mortgage moved to the government-owned  NRAM. More  
recently, in 2016,  it was sold to Landmark, a private company.
Its a common feature of the mortgage  market  that a borrower  takes out a mortgage  product 
 a fixed or tracker interest rate  for a limited period.  When the product ends the mortgage  
reverts to the lenders  standard rate, or SVR. Many  borrowers then take out a new product  
either with the same  lender,  or a new one  so they never have to pay the SVR in practice.
However, theres not an entitlement to a new interest rate. Nothing in the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ks mortgage, or her mortgage  offer, says that she will be able to take a 
new product when her old one expires. And nothing in the regulators rules  says that either.  
Ref: DRN94223182Thats also a standard feature of the mortgage  market. Most lenders will allow  an application 
for a new rate (and most borrowers will expect it) but theyre not required to do so.
So when a product expires   as Mrs Ks did in 2010   theres  a general expectation of 
moving to a new one, but no entitlement to do so. The usual reasons a lender offers  new 
rates is to retain existing business, or attract new customers. But those reasons are only 
applicable to an active lender looking to maintain  or increase its market share.
Between when  Mrs K took out her product in 2005  and when  it expired  in 2010 the financial 
market crash happened  and Northern  Rock collapsed and had to be nationalised.
The new owner  of Northern Rock, and of Mrs Ks mortgage, was NRAM  which was in turn 
owned by a firm called  UKAR, which was itself owned by the government.  UKAR  has 
previously said that it wasnt allowed, by the terms of the nationalisation, to offer new interest  
rate products.  It wasnt something  that would have been allowed because  of laws against 
government bodies  competing in the market place.
Its very unfortunate  that Mrs Ks mortgage was caught up in the consequences of Northern 
Rocks collapse. One result of that was that from 2010 onwards she was only able to be on 
the SVR (or discount), not take any new products.  But the same was true of all NRAMs 
other customers, because  of its legal obligations. So while I can understand why Mrs K felt it 
did, I dont think NRAM treated her unfairly.
Since her mortgage was taken over by Landmark  in 2016, things are different. Theres 
nothing to prevent  Landmark offering new products  in the way NRAM was prevented  from 
doing so. Landmark has chosen  not to offer new products  but its a matter  of choice and 
the way it has decided to run its business.
However, again, Mrs K was treated the same as all Landmarks other customers.  Nothing  in 
the terms of her mortgage,  or in the regulators rules, said that Landmark had to offer new 
interest rates to Mrs K or any of its other customers. It didnt put any barriers in Mrs Ks way 
that would  have stopped  her moving her mortgage to another lender with a lower  interest  
rate  indeed, it offered to arrange for her to receive  independent mortgage  advice  so she 
could find another  lender, and to waive its usual administration fee charged for ending  a 
mortgage. It also offered  to extend  the term of her mortgage to allow her to reduce her 
monthly outgoings, but Mrs K didnt want to do that.
Ive also noted  that Landmarks SVR is higher than the new interest  rate products offered by 
other lenders that offer new rates  but its broadly  in line with the SVR rates  other lenders 
charge. Mrs K made the point that it was much  higher than Bank  of England  base rate. 
Indeed it was, but there was no obligation on Landmark that the SVR would match  base 
rate. 
While Mrs K was paying the SVR,  from 2010 onwards, it stayed at the same level until 2016.  
In 2016, 2017 and 2018 (and, very recently,  in 2020), the SVR has changed  at the same 
time, and by the same amount, as changes in base rate. So although  the SVR isnt the same 
as base rate, for all the time Mrs K was paying  it, it has reflected changes to it. The terms 
and conditions allow the SVR to be changed  to reflect wider movements in interest rates.  I 
think the terms could  have been  clearer, but as there was no restriction  on Mrs K moving her 
mortgage to another lender I dont think they were  unfair.
Ref: DRN94223183Taking everything into account,  I do understand why Mrs K was unhappy  with the rate she 
was paying, and wished it was lower.  But I dont think either NRAM or Landmark treated her 
unfairly, and so I dont  think  I can fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H, Mr K and 
Mr K, on behalf of Mrs Ks estate, to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9422318