K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc (Tesco) applied a default  notice to her 
credit card account.
background
In 2017 Miss C missed  payments and went  over the limit on a credit card account she held 
with Tesco. Because Miss C didnt bring her account  up to date, Tesco applied a default  to 
Miss Cs account and sold the debt to a third party. 
Miss C says she wasnt aware a default  notice had been served   or that the default  had 
been applied.  She says she hadnt  received any communication from Tesco  about this. And 
the first she knew of the default was when  she was contacted by the new owners of the debt. 
When Miss C called Tesco to request that the fees and charges were  refunded,  and to make 
a complaint about the default  itself, she says the person she spoke to was rude.
Miss C has also let us know that one of the reasons she missed  the payments  on the 
account was because she had suffered two bereavements in the family and this had caused 
her much upset and grief.
Tesco upheld Miss Cs complaint in part. It offered her £100 for the service  she received in 
relation to how her complaint was handled.  But it said that the default had been applied  to 
her account  fairly. 
Tesco say it tried to contact Miss C a number of times, by phone  and post,  to collect a 
payment and to let her know that a default would be applied to her account  if she didnt bring 
it up to date.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She thought Tesco  had acted 
fairly when  it applied the default notice. Miss C responded to the investigators assessment  to 
say she didnt agree. More specifically that she felt as though the investigator  hadnt taken 
into account her personal circumstances at the time.
Because Miss C didnt  agree,  the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
account in default 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Cs account. It states: You must pay the 
minimum payment on time  you must immediately pay any amount that exceeds your 
credit limit, any arrears and the amount made  in breach of this contract  and if you miss a 
payment, as well as having to pay additional interest  and charges  under this agreement, 
your credit record  may be affected, making it more  difficult  or more expensive  to borrow.  
Ref: DRN92936422Looking at the history  of Miss Cs account,  I can see that in June 2017  Miss C went over the 
agreed credit limit of £375, and her direct debit was also returned  as unpaid. No payments 
were made to the account until it was repaid in full in March  2018. So based on the above, I 
agree that Miss C was in breach of the terms and conditions of her Tesco  account.
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  says when  a consumer is at least three  
months behind with their payments then a default  may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
In June 2017, Tesco sent Miss C a letter to let her know that her bank had cancelled the 
direct debit, and that shed need to choose  another way to make payments to the account.  
After this, Ive seen a number of letters Tesco sent to Miss C to let her know that she needed 
to bring her account  up to date  these  letters included  default notices. Tesco  also sent a 
letter to let Miss C know that it had terminated  her credit card account.
So I think Tesco had attempted to get in touch with Miss C, on a number of occasions, to let 
her know  that a default would be applied to the account if she didnt bring it up to date. And 
because Miss C didnt  bring the account up to date, the default  was applied, and the credit 
reference agencies  were notified.  
Based on what Ive said above, I think Tesco  acted  fairly when it applied  the default  to 
Miss Cs account.
address changes
Miss C says she wasnt aware Tesco had applied the default as she hadnt received any 
communication from them about this. She says she had updated her address with Tesco  a 
number of times, but it hadnt actioned this and so the letters were going to the wrong 
address.
Ive seen a copy  of Tescos contact  notes which show each time it was in contact with 
Miss C. There does  seem to be a bit of confusion about what  the correct  mailing address 
was for her  the notes  Ive seen arent  clear  on which address was the correct  one. So it is 
now for me to decide if Miss C was aware  that Tesco were trying to contact her to let her 
know that her account could go into default if she didnt bring it up to date.
The address  Tesco sent the default notices to was Miss Cs family  home.  Miss C has told us 
her mother  would forward on any mail that was sent to this address. Tesco  has sent me 
copies of numerous letters it sent to Miss C about her account after it went  into arrears.  It 
appears the letters were  correctly addressed  to Miss Cs family home, and so it would seem 
unusual if not a single one of these letters was received. 
From looking  at the contact notes  on file, it appears Tesco  also sent new cards to Miss Cs 
family home  these  seem to have  made  their way to Miss C, given that the account was still 
in use.
Based on what Ive said, on balance, I think it likely Miss C received the notification  about 
the default  along  with the other  letters Tesco sent her, to let her know about  the arrears  on 
the account.
In addition to this, Miss C seems to have had the same mobile number  for some time. Ive 
seen that Tesco have tried to contact Miss C numerous times on this number, but Miss C 
Ref: DRN92936423hasnt answered. This does lead me to believe that Miss C knew that Tesco was trying  to 
contact her. 
Finally, I think  there was some  responsibility  on Miss C to check  that her direct debit had 
been received  by Tesco. Miss C used the account for purchases in May 2017, and so I think 
it likely  she would have known that shed need to make at least the monthly  minimum 
payment to each month to repay this. Even if Miss C didnt specifically check her Tesco  
account, she would have been able to see from her bank account statements that the direct 
debit wasnt being  collected.
personal circumstances
Miss C says she was going  through a very difficult time in 2017  when she suffered two family 
bereavements. She says this difficult time led her to forget about the amount she owed 
Tesco. Shes also said that she wasnt working at this time.  
I appreciate Miss C has been through a very difficult time. And I can imagine that the 
balance owing to Tesco was probably the last thing on her mind. But given  what  Ive said, I 
dont think Tesco acted  unfairly. I cant see that it ought to have been aware of Miss Cs 
personal circumstances prior to the default  being applied. For example, there isnt any 
record of her contacting  Tesco about  this prior to the default.  I understand that Miss C would 
like the default  removed as a gesture of good  will. But its Tescos responsibility  to report  
factual information  to the credit reference agencies. Because  it didnt do anything  wrong  
when it applied the default,  Im not going to ask it to remove  this.
customer service  issues
Ive listened to the calls Miss C has had with Tesco. Miss C says she was in touch with 
Tesco in August 2017 and November 2017,  but she told us she doesnt remember the 
purpose of the calls,  and Tesco doesnt  have any records  of these calls either.  Tesco has 
already paid Miss C £100 for some service issues. I think this is a fair amount. I havent seen 
anything else that makes me think Miss C has received a poor level of service from Tesco.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive detailed above, I dont  uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293642