K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has failed to help them during a period 
of financial difficulty.
background
Mr and Mrs G first told Barclays that they were experiencing financial difficulties in the 
September 2018. They asked Barclays for help.  They want  to try to avoid on-going charges 
because they say that the charges are adding to their financial  problems.
Barclays treated Mr and Mrs Gs request  for help as a complaint about the charges. Whilst 
recognising that they were experiencing financial difficulties, it said that the charges had 
been applied  correctly and suggested  Mrs G telephoned its financial assist team for help.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said that Barclays  had 
offered help by suggesting Mrs G contact it or approaches a free debt advisory  service.  He 
said that the charges had been applied fairly  and Barclays had written to Mr and Mrs G 
about these. He didnt think it was obliged  to reduce or waive these.
Mr and Mrs G responded to say, in summary,  that they didnt believe it was unreasonable to 
ask Barclays for support  to help them get out of constantly going around in circles. They  
want to agree an arrangement to repay the overdraft, whilst allowing three essential directs 
debits to be paid.  They also want Barclays  to help them find a way to do this so they can 
avoid monthly charges,  which  is making their situation  worse.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs G and to Barclays  on 20 August 2019.  I summarise my findings:
In cases of financial difficulty a bank has a regulatory requirement to act positively and 
sympathetically to a customer and I would expect to carry  out its own investigations to 
verify the situation.
 
I would  expect both parties to cooperate  fully in negotiating a way forward.
Mrs G told Barclays  that they were experiencing financial  difficulties in September 2018. 
It did suggest that Mrs G call its financial  assist  team who would be able to offer help, 
although it treated  Mrs Gs request for help as a complaint  about  charges.
Mrs G told Barclays  that she suffered severe  anxiety  and wasnt able to speak on the 
phone and accepted that this made things harder  to sort out. Despite being made aware  
on numerous occasions of her wish to communicate in writing, the bank continued to 
insist that Mrs G contact it by telephone.
I accepted that it may be easier to discuss the account over the telephone, but I couldnt 
see any reason why Barclays couldnt  have  written to Mr and Mrs G to ask them  for 
details of their financial  situation.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs bank statements it was clear  that the amount of their 
three direct debits exceeded  the amount being paid into the account each month. So Mr 
Ref: DRN94873412and Mrs G were  always going to be exceeding  their limit and incurring charges. I 
considered this was making their financial situation  worse.
I urged  Mr and Mrs G to pay in more to the account each month to make sure the 
amount covered the direct  debits and the monthly  overdraft fee.
Subject to any further representations from Mr and Mrs G or Barclays,  my provisional  
decision was that I thought Barclays could  have taken more steps to help Mr and Mrs G. I 
considered it should  refund all the charges since September 2018 and, if Mrs G preferred, it 
should communicate with her in writing. I also said it should pay £200 compensation for the 
upset it had caused.
Mr and Mrs G accepted  my provisional decision and said that they had now cancelled  one of 
the direct  debits and increased the amount they were paying into the account  each month.
Barclays responded to say, in summary, that it had moved the account to its Special  Case 
Handling Team to provide  Mrs G with additional support but it did need  to speak to her, 
perhaps via StepChange. It agreed to refund the unpaid fees and to pay £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to refund the unpaid fees.  It has pointed out that Mr and Mrs G will still 
incur an overdraft fee in line with its terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs G have told us that 
they have cancelled one of the direct debits and are now paying more  into the account. 
I appreciate that Barclays may find it easier to speak to Mr and Mrs G to try to assess their 
financial situation. But Mrs G has told Barclays that she finds it very difficult to do this. She 
has also told us that StepChange helped her previously  with template letters to deal with 
other creditors but she is now no longer in contact with it. 
Im satisfied that Mrs G has already written to Barclays a few times asking for help. Im not 
persuaded that Barclays cant  write  to Mr and Mrs G to ask them to complete an income  and 
expenditure schedule, which will allow its Specialist  Care Handling Team to review their 
situation. 
Whilst the bank  must deal with customers in financial difficulty  positively  and sympathetically,  
this does not necessarily  mean that a bank has to refund  charges  applied or grant an 
overdraft. I would expect  both parties to co-operate fully to come to a mutually agreeable 
arrangement about the debt, without making Mr and Mrs Gs financial situation  worse.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1.Refund all the unpaid charges since September 2018.
2.Write  to Mr and Mrs G to ask for any information it needs.
3.Pay Mr and Mrs G £200 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Ref: DRN94873413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9487341