K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has stopped allowing third parties to pay into her 
bank account.  
background
Miss M holds a bank  account with HSBC. Until 31 October 2018 her father  and partner were  
able to pay money into her bank  account  in branch. But after this date HSBC  changed  
adopted a new policy which  led to it changing  the way it was intending to deal with cash 
deposits in branch. 
Under HSBCs  new policy only the account  holder is able to deposit cash into their bank 
account at a branch counter or self-service machine. Third parties are now prevented  from 
paying cash into someone elses bank account unless they, for example, hold a Power  of 
Attorney (POA)  or are third party  mandate holders.  So the new policy  means that Miss Ms 
father and partner are no longer able to pay cash into her bank  account  in branch unless 
they hold a POA  or she sets up third party  mandates in their name. 
Miss M is very unhappy with this new policy and complained to HSBC  about it. She said she 
suffers from a number  of health needs  or disabilities  namely agoraphobia  and PTSD   
which prevent her from leaving her home. So she feels  the restriction  against third parties 
depositing money in to her account is restricting her own use of her bank account.  She 
believes that the way she is being  dealt with by HSBC is breaching  the Equality Act 2010.  
And she feels HSBC are discriminating against her by implementing this policy. But HSBC  
disagrees with this. It says its made reasonable adjustments, which permit third parties  to 
deposit cash into an account. And it says its informed Miss M of these alternatives.
Miss M remains  unhappy with HSBCs response  to her complaint so she referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Miss M, didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld. They didnt think HSBC had treated Miss M less 
favourably due to her health conditions and disability. And they didnt agree that HSBC  had 
breached the Equality Act in the way it had dealt with Miss M. So, they didnt think  it had 
done anything  wrong here. But Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. So this complaint 
has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I recognise that Miss M feels very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint, which is 
understandable. And I can appreciate that HSBCs new policy means  she will have  to find 
alternative ways for her father  and partner to deposit money into her account in branch, 
which must be upsetting  and frustrating. But taking everything Miss M and HSBC have said 
into account I dont  think HSBC did anything wrong here. I know  Miss M will be disappointed  
with my conclusions so Ill explain why I dont uphold  this complaint.
Because Miss Ms health conditions  restrict her ability to leave her home, I can appreciate 
how reliant she would be on her father and partner making cash deposits into her account in 
such circumstances. She isnt able to pay cash  into her account in branch herself. But 
HSBCs decision  to introduce a new policy to restrict the ability of third parties  to deposit 
Ref: DRN94523902cash into someone elses account is a business  decision its entitled to make. And, this isnt 
a decision we can interfere with.
I also can see from the terms  and conditions of Miss Ms account that HSBC are entitled  to 
make changes to the accounts rules, which is what its done  here.  So, I cant say its done 
anything wrong  by implementing a new policy, which HSBC says has been introduced to 
help tackle potential financial crime. This is something that banks have a duty to safeguard 
against and its a matter for HSCS to decide how it does that. 
But sometimes where a business strictly  follows  its policies  and procedures it can lead to an 
unfair outcome for an individual consumer. This is something this service can look at. So, 
Ive thought about whether adopting this new policy has unfairly restricted Miss Ms ability  to 
use her account in view of her health.  And Ive thought about  whether HSBC has made 
reasonable adjustments to remove the barriers someone in Miss Ms position would most 
likely face due to the change in policy.
Its clear that Miss M feels victimised and discriminated against  and that her experience  with 
HSBC is breaching the Equality Act 2010. The law is one of the things I must take into 
account in making  my decision. Under the Equality Act, businesses  should anticipate 
barriers which customers  with disabilities, for example, might face when using services. And 
they should also take steps to remove those barriers  as far as possible. Businesses  are 
required to make reasonable  adjustments to their services so that, as far as possible, people  
with a disability  arent  disadvantaged and receive  the same  service as people  who dont 
have a disability.
Miss M feels that HSBC  hasnt made  any reasonable adjustments, which  accommodate her 
health difficulties.  But I can see that its offered her alternative ways for third parties to pay 
funds into her account. Specifically it has told Miss M that a third party  can deposit cash into 
their own account and then transfer  it electronically or offline (via cheque  or over the counter 
of their bank) from their account to Miss Ms account. HSBC  has also explained  that a third 
party could become a third party  mandate  or POA, which  would enable  them  to pay cash  
directly into Miss Ms account  in branch. So it does appear HSBC has made  reasonable 
adjustments for customers who arent  able to attend their branch to deposit cash. 
Miss M says she doesnt want  to set up a power  of attorney because this would remove her 
independence. And its, of course, entirely  within her discretion to decline to make  this 
choice. As an alternative to a power of attorney arrangement, Miss M is able to set up a third 
party mandate to account, which would allow her father and partner to pay money into her 
account in branch. This is the least intrusive option available to Miss M because she would 
be able to retain control over her account. 
From looking  carefully at the third party access guidance from HSBC its clear  that a third 
party mandate is suitable for an account holder  who, for example, is housebound. It can be 
set up by post. So, Miss M wouldnt need  to attend her branch in order to set up this 
arrangement. And an account holder can nominate multiple parties  to act on their behalf and 
restrict what those third parties are able to do with their account. 
Im persuaded that if Miss Ms father  and partner were set up as third party  mandate  holders 
they would, most likely, be able to make cash payments into her account  as they had 
previously done.  So, Im satisfied that in offering this option to Miss M HSBC  has provided a 
reasonable alternative to Miss M, which means  that she wont  be disadvantaged  by her 
inability to attend the branch in person.  
Ref: DRN94523903Miss M said she doesnt want to set up a third party mandate.  But I think this option and the 
POA alternative are reasonable adjustments that HSBC tried to make, albeit ones  that Miss 
M has chosen not to accept. Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear HSBC offers a 
variety of options where a customer isnt able to attend their branch to deposit cash. I think in 
doing so its foreseen potential barriers that would face someone who is housebound. 
Im satisfied that by offering the alternatives it did, which could be used by customers  who 
are unable to attend their branch, HSBC  met its obligations under the Equality Act. Its taken 
steps to remove the barriers that would face someone in Miss Ms position  to ensure that, as 
far as possible, she receives the same  service as someone who is able to attend their 
branch. It follows that Im not persuaded that HSBC has breached the Equality Act or acted 
unfairly by implementing its new policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9452390