K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr G owned a property  with an old central  heating boiler. Through  a letting agent, he let the 
property to tenants. He had a British Gas insurance policy that covered an annual service  
and  subject  to the policy terms  any necessary repairs.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
On an annual service  visit on 23 January, British Gas said the boiler  wasnt  safe to use. The 
service engineer turned the boiler  off, leaving the tenants without central  heating  and hot 
water during  a period of cold weather. The engineer left without making an appointment for 
the repair of the boiler.
Mr G got a contractor to do a temporary  repair on 23 January and a permanent  repair  on 
24 January. He complained that British  Gas should  reimburse and compensate him.
British Gas sent a final response on 5 or 6 February.  It acknowledged that the service  
engineer shouldve made an appointment to repair the boiler. British Gas sent Mr G a 
cheque for £50.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that:
British Gas acted correctly when the engineer switched off the boiler due to health 
and safety reasons  and to avoid risk to the tenants.
British Gas gave  poor customer service  because its engineer  was unaware of the 
level of cover Mr G had and he left the property without checking this further  and 
without making a follow-up appointment.
The £50.00  compensation is fair as British Gas offered an appointment the next day 
in line with the policy on reasonable timescales.
The appointment for the next day wasnt taken up. British Gas wasnt given 
reasonable time to assess the faulty  boiler. So the investigator  wasnt  asking British  
Gas to cover the cost of the work  done  by Mr Gs contractor.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to British  Gas on 23 October  2019. I summarise my findings:
I hadnt found that the service engineer was wrong to categorise  the boiler as At 
Risk. And  whilst he left the tenants not knowing what was going to happen next  I 
can only direct British  Gas to compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience 
Ref: DRN96631592he personally suffered  as a result. I found  that Mr Gs tenants and letting agent bore 
the brunt of this uncertainty.  British Gas quickly put that right in the telephone call.
Mr G or the letting agent on his behalf made a choice to use the contractor. 
Therefore I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to reimburse the 
£606.00.
After Mr G complained on 29 January, British Gas promptly sent a final response and 
a cheque for £50.00. I was minded to find that wasnt enough to compensate Mr G 
for the service engineers  failure to check and communicate causing him distress and 
inconvenience.
That distress  and inconvenience included a genuine   but I had found mistaken  
belief that British Gas was unfairly  declining to repair  Mr Gs old boiler within  a 
reasonable time. I was minded to find that £100.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for such distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct British  Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr G  in addition to its cheque  for £50.00   a further £50.00  for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr G hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees with the provisional  decision.  It says, in summary,  that:
When its engineer visited the property on 23 January  2019  to carry out the annual  
service visit, the engineer  was unable to complete the service as he identified a fault 
with the appliance. There was some  confusion with the level of cover that Mr G held 
with British Gas and despite  discussing this with the tenants who were on site, British 
Gas couldnt establish if a repair was covered  under the policy.  
Although its engineer  left the boiler inoperable, it offered to arrange  a visit the very 
next day, but Mr Gs representative didnt accept the visit. After Mr Gs representative 
discussed the excess charge with British Gas,  an informed choice was made to use a 
third party  and a third party visited that evening.
Even if its engineer  had investigated the fault in more detail, there is a high 
probability that he would have to order the part and return  the following day to 
complete a repair. Therefore Mr G and his tenants were  in exactly  the same position  
as they would have been had British Gas completed the visit. 
British Gas apologised  for the confusion and awarded a gesture  of £50.00 to reflect  
the service provided. 
The gesture  offered  was simply due to the confusion regarding  the level of cover, 
there were no excessive delays or concerns regarding the engineers  workmanship. 
Its offer was both fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN96631593my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy  was subject to a fixed fee or excess of £60.00 for each completed repair.
I accept that the tenants hadnt reported a fault and Mr G hadnt booked a repair  visit. I find 
that the British  Gas engineer mustve  known he was booked for an annual service  visit 
(ASV). I dont  think this is contradicted by the final response letter which  mentioned a 
stand alone job request .
I dont think Mr G was present. But I have no reason to doubt his statement that one of the 
tenants told him the service engineer had said British Gas didnt like old boilers.
The engineer made  a computerised  note as follows:
unable to asv boiler as boiler is faulty,  left A/R, CUST ASK TO LEV BOILER ON
From that, I find that the engineer thought he was unable to complete the annual  service visit 
as the boiler was faulty. He categorised it as At Risk, advising the customer (or rather  one 
of the tenants) not to use it - but the tenant  asked  him to leave the boiler on.
The engineer didnt specify the fault or faults. And I think he shouldve described what  was 
wrong. But from what happened later, I find that there were faults with a three-port valve  and 
a missing or damaged cover for the controls.
There isnt enough  technical evidence to persuade  me that the service engineer was wrong 
to categorise the boiler as At Risk.  But I dont think the engineer  shouldve  left the property 
without checking  and communicating what British Gas was going to do next.
I think the tenants contacted the letting  agent. And the letting agent  contacted  British  Gas.
Ive listened to the call recording. Working from the computerised note, British Gas couldnt  
say whether the boiler was fixable.  It said it would send a repair  engineer to assess  that.
In answer to a question  about medical risk, the letting  agent said one of the tenants  had 
asthma. Subject  to payment of the excess, British Gas offered a repair appointment for the 
afternoon of the next day 24 January. The letting agent said she would check with Mr G and 
other contractors.
From the call recording I find that nothing was said about the boiler being too old. And 
nothing was said about needing  time to obtain parts. I find that  subject to payment of the 
excess  British Gas was willing and able to send a repair  engineer within a reasonable time.
From what  happened  next,  I find it likely that British Gas wouldve  repaired the boiler within a 
reasonable time.
Mr G or his letting agent contacted a contractor.  From the invoice, I see that the contractor  
got the boiler working again the same evening. The next day he replaced a faulty  three-port 
valve. He also fitted a new control  cover.  His invoice  was for £606.00.
Ref: DRN96631594In my view British Gas was right to accept that the service engineer  shouldve  checked that 
Mr G was covered for repairs. And the service engineer shouldve  booked an appointment 
for a repair engineer.
I dont share  Mr Gs view that British Gas had declined to repair his old boiler. The telephone 
call made  clear that - if it was fixable - British  Gas would fix the boiler within  a reasonable 
time.
So I find that Mr G or the letting agent  on his behalf  made a choice to use the contractor.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to reimburse the £606.00.
I havent found that the service engineer was wrong to categorise  the boiler as At Risk.
And  whilst he left the tenants not knowing what was going to happen next  I can only 
direct British Gas to compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience he personally 
suffered as a result. I find that Mr Gs tenants  and letting agent bore the brunt of this 
uncertainty. British  Gas quickly  put that right in the telephone call.
After Mr G complained on 29 January, British Gas promptly sent a final response and a 
cheque for £50.00. I find that wasnt enough  to compensate Mr G for the service  engineers  
failure to check and communicate causing him distress  and inconvenience.
That distress  and inconvenience included a genuine   but I have found mistaken  belief that 
British Gas was unfairly declining  to repair Mr Gs old boiler within a reasonable time. I find 
that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for such  distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr G  in addition  to its cheque  for £50.00   a 
further £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9663159