K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt make  a payment in the timescale it 
promised. As a result their house  purchase  was delayed and they incurred additional costs, 
stress, and inconvenience.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 10 March 2020. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I explained why I felt Barclays offer of 
£200 compensation was fair to resolve this complaint. I said that whilst I sympathised with 
Mr and Mrs B and recognised their disappointment,  I didnt think  there was sufficient 
evidence to suggest the costs they are asking Barclays to reimburse were incurred solely  
due to Barclays actions.
Mr and Mrs B havent responded to my provisional decision. Barclays  has said it accepts my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I have reached  the same conclusions  I did in my provisional  
decision. I still think Barclays  offer of £200  compensation  is reasonable to resolve this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Ill leave it for Mr and Mrs B to decide 
whether to accept  the £200  compensation already offered  by Barclays  Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96238372copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make a payment in the timescale it 
promised. As a result their house purchase was delayed  and they incurred additional  costs,  stress, 
and inconvenience.
background
On the 21 December  2018 Mr B went  into a Barclays  branch and asked  to make a CHAPS payment  
from Mr and Mrs Bs joint account to solicitors acting on their behalf. The payment was a deposit to 
facilitate the exchange of contracts for a house  purchase. 
Mr B says that he stressed how important it was that this payment went  through quickly, and 
explained his solicitors would need to make a further transaction with the funds  before the close of 
business that day. Barclays  advisor spoke to its payments team, and Mr B was told that the transfer 
would be made within 2 hours.
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors didnt receive the funds until the 28 December 2018. As a result Mr and Mrs 
B say that their property purchase was delayed  by 2 months, with completion taking place on 15 
March 2019, not the 16 January 2019 as originally scheduled.  
Mr and Mrs B had to rent an alternative property to stay in during this time as the sale of their existing 
home went through on the 17 January 2019.  They also had to pay to put some of their belongings  into 
storage. They asked  Barclays to reimburse these costs, which they estimated to be £3,764.  They  also 
explained this matter  had caused them significant  stress.  
Barclays accepted that Mr B was under the impression his payment  would be made within  2 hours, 
and offered £200 for the inconvenience caused. But it explained the transfer had been made within 
the timescales advised  for CHAPS payments.  And it didnt feel responsible  for the additional costs Mr 
and Mrs B said that they had incurred  as a result  of their house purchase being delayed. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this response was fair. They said that if Barclays had made  it clear  that the 
payment might not be made until after 5pm that day they would have made alternative arrangements 
to transfer the funds.
Our adjudicator sympathised with Mr and Mrs Bs situation.  She recognised the personal difficulties 
theyd faced, and how stressful it can be to move properties.  But whilst she felt Mr and Mrs B had 
reasonably expected the payment to go through within 2 hours based on what the bank had said,  she 
said Barclays  had processed the payment within the correct timescales for CHAPS payments. And so 
she considered Barclays offer of £200  compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this view, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, contradictory or not available, Im 
required to make  my decision on balance  i.e. what I think is most  likely to have happened given what  
the parties have said, and the evidence  theyve provided.
I do sympathise  with Mr and Mrs B here. I appreciate this was very stressful for them, especially  given 
the time of year this occurred and their personal circumstances.  So I know theyll  be very 
disappointed by my decision, but on the basis  of the evidence Ive been provided  to date I dont feel I 
can reasonably ask Barclays to reimburse the costs  theyve  asked for. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN96238373Barclays has advised that CHAPS payments are made by the end of the day they are requested, 
provided they are requested  before the cut-off time of 3:30pm in branch or on the phone, or 5pm 
online. 
In this case Mr B says he went into a Barclays branch at around 11:30am to 12pm on the morning of 
the 21 December 2018 to request the payment.  Barclays has shown us that the branch keyed in the 
transaction at 12:43pm (which it says is when  it took the instructions from Mr B), and its CHAPS team 
processed the payment  at 5:05pm. The money then left Mr and Mrs Bs account  at 5:07pm. So Im 
satisfied Barclays processed this transfer within  the usual  timescale for a payment of this type.
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors have now confirmed  that they did receive the money  that day. But explained 
that as it arrived after 5pm their accounts team had closed for the Christmas break. Theyve  also 
advised that it would have been too late for the entire chain to exchange by that point as the buyers 
solicitor had closed by 5pm.  And the sellers solicitor  then remained  closed until the 2 January  2019.  
Based on advice Barclays  had given him in branch Mr B says he expected his payment to go through 
within 2 hours, giving  time for his solicitors to make an onward transfer with the money, and exchange 
of contracts on the property  to take place. He says that if hed realised this might not be possible he 
and Mrs B would have  sought to make alternative arrangements to facilitate the payment. 
Barclays disputes that it gave  any promises  that the payment would  be made within this timescale. 
The staff member who assisted Mr B in branch  has explained that the payment centre advised that 
they would try to push  Mr Bs payment forward  and that it should be done within two hours. But says it 
didnt guarantee this. I can also see that the Confirmation of Payment  Instruction letter  that Barclays 
provided to Mr B stated  that This payment will be sent as a same day domestic  payment.
Banks have  to carry out checks on payments like this. And Barclays has explained that its CHAPS 
team had a surge  of payments to process that day as it was the last working day before the Christmas 
period. So whilst I realise Mr B was under the impression the payment would definitely go through 
within 2 hours, I think its unlikely Barclays would have given any guarantees that it could complete the 
payment within this timescale.  And whilst I feel its made Mr and Mrs B a reasonable  offer of £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused when  their payment wasnt processed within this 
timeframe, I dont feel I can reasonably hold Barclays responsible for the losses being  claimed.  
I also havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that even if Barclays had made this payment 
within 2 hours, Mr and Mrs Bs house  purchase would definitely have completed on the 16 January 
2019. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs B would have tried to make alternative payment arrangements had they 
not thought Barclays would make the payment within 2 hours.  Theyve told us that they couldve 
asked family members for assistance  with this. But Im not seen any persuasive evidence it would  
definitely have been possible for them to have  made successful arrangements for such a large 
payment in such a tight timescale.  I also havent  seen  any evidence  to support the assertion that Mr 
and Mrs Bs solicitors  intended to make a further transfer with the funds that day. And I cant  be sure 
that the solicitors  would  definitely have had time to complete any intended transfer prior to 5pm even 
if the funds had arrived  earlier that afternoon. Other banks would have  had similar payment cut off 
times and payment checks to complete as Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs B have explained that the delay  in this payment going through  meant the vendor was not 
able to arrange accommodation in time for the original  planned completion date of 16 January 2019. 
As Ive said,  I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs overall  experience here. But on the basis of the 
evidence Ive seen I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the costs they incurred  as a 
result of the delay in the completion of their house purchase were  due solely  to Barclays  actions.  Mr 
B was attempting to make this payment on the day the exchange of contracts  was due. So there was 
always going  to be a risk of delay  occurring. 
Ref: DRN96238374my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Barclay Bank UK PLCs offer of £200 compensation is reasonable to 
resolve this complaint.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9623837