K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about how Co-op Insurance Services Limited (Co-op) handled  two claims 
made against her home insurance for escape  of water.
Co-op has used various third-party companies to assist with assessing and repairing the 
damage to Ms Ms property. For ease, I will refer only to Co-op.
background
On 19 July 2018 Ms M notified Co-op that there had been a leak from a bathroom at her 
property. Co-op accepted  the claim and shortly  after, began a programme of drying  the 
property. Around  a week later Ms M found a second leak in her kitchen and notified Co-op. 
This claim  was also accepted but Co-op says it told Ms M that it was her responsibility to 
have this leak repaired. Ms M says it wasnt made  clear  that it was her responsibility to have 
the leak repaired but when she became aware of that, she had it repaired immediately in 
December 2018.
At the end of September  2018, it was confirmed that the damage from the upstairs  leak had 
been completely  dried out. But the kitchen had not yet finished drying out. There had been 
some debate between Co-op and its agents as to whether the kitchen cabinets needed to be 
removed to dry the kitchen. It had been decided in August 2018 that they needed to be 
removed but that didnt  happen until December 2018. The kitchen was confirmed  to be 
completely dry in January  2019.
Co-op arranged  for works to begin on the property in January 2019, but they found  that the 
second leak hadnt been effectively fixed. Co-op  also says it was still awaiting Ms Ms choice  
of tiles for the kitchen. Co-op emailed Ms M about these issues the same day it was due to 
start the works. At the beginning of February 2019,  Co-ops contractors arranged to have the 
pipe fixed themselves and let Ms M know that the cost would be taken out of her settlement. 
At this point, works were able to continue to repair Ms Ms home.
Ms M required  alternative accommodation  while her claims were ongoing as her home was 
uninhabitable. But as she often worked  away from home, this alternative  accommodation 
was only needed  for the times  she would  have been  staying at her home. Along with her 
concerns about  the length of time the works  were  taking, Ms M also raised concerns that she 
wasnt always given alternative accommodation when she needed it.
Co-op responded to Ms Ms concerns.  It explained  that the contractors had thought  it would 
be better to do the work to both areas  at the same time. Co-op  also acknowledged there was 
a delay in removing the kitchen cabinets.  But it said it was still waiting for Ms Ms choice  of 
tile before further work could go ahead. Co-op also responded to Ms Ms concerns about 
alternative accommodation, acknowledging  that on one occasion  its agents could have been 
more proactive in arranging  this by contacting her to find out if she required accommodation 
when she returned  from a lengthy  trip. Co-op offered  a total of £175 compensation.
Ms M was unhappy with Co-ops response so referred her complaints  to this service.  Before 
an investigator here could  consider the complaint, it seems  most of the works to Ms Ms 
property were completed. Our investigator considered what  had happened and thought the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He thought  that Co-op  should pay Ms M a total of £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her by Co-ops  handling of her 
claim.
Ref: DRN97608452Co-op didnt agree. It said that there had been delays but some  of these had been due to 
difficulties in getting hold of Ms M. It also said that it had been Ms Ms responsibility to get 
the second leak fixed and some of the delay  was due to this not being done  effectively,  
which delayed works being carried out. Co-op  maintained that the offer it had already made 
of £175 compensation was fair. So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 March 2020 letting both parties know that I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In it I said:
The works  to the house have now been  completed so the only issue for me to consider is 
whether Co-op  should pay more compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
Ms M during the course of her claim. Co-op  has already acknowledged  that there were 
delays and that there had been  some  confusion about arranging  alternative accommodation.
These types of claims where a property  needs to be dried out before being  repaired can 
often take a long time as the drying process  can be lengthy. The first leak was able to be 
dried within a reasonable amount of time. But I think the delays which  were  avoidable were 
caused by issues  with drying the damage from the second leak.
It took some time to establish whether the kitchen cabinets needed to be removed during the 
drying process. But from the end of August 2018,  it became clear  that this was going to be 
necessary. However  this didnt happen until December 2018.  I can see that it took around 
month for Co-ops contractor to get in touch with Ms M and arrange to visit the property to 
remove the cabinets. But I still think there  is a period of around two to three months  where 
more could have  been done  by Co-op to ensure the cabinets were  removed  and the kitchen 
could be dried  out sooner than it was.
Ive also considered the delays between January and February  2019. But it seems these 
were due to the second leak not being repaired effectively. Ms M was away during that 
period, but she was aware that fixing the pipe was her responsibility by that time and I can 
see that Co-op had sent Ms M emails about this issue  to explain why it couldnt  progress the 
works on her home. So I dont think this delay was caused by Co-op.
I have also considered whether Co-op should have begun the works to the upstairs of the 
house sooner  than it did. At the time the decision was made to complete the repairs  at one 
time, I dont think it was anticipated  that drying the kitchen would take as long as it did. But 
during the course of the claims it became apparent  that the kitchen would take some  time to 
dry, so I think Co-op could  have done more  to progress the first claim and ensure that there  
were no further delays to Ms M. Although as Ms M would likely still have had to wait until the 
kitchen had dried out and been  repaired to move  back into her property, I dont think  this had 
a significant impact on the length  of time it took to complete the repairs to her home.
Co-op has already  acknowledged that its agent  should have done more to proactively 
arrange alternative accommodation  for Ms M when she returned  home  from a long period 
away in January 2019. At this stage  she expected  her home to be completed and when Co-
op realised this wasnt going to happen,  albeit due to the leak not being repaired effectively 
by Ms Ms plumber, I think  it should  have done more  to find out whether Ms M would require 
accommodation when  she returned.
Taking everything into account,  these claims were ongoing for a long period of time. And I 
think Co-op caused avoidable  delays  of around two to three months during the course  of the 
Ref: DRN97608453claims. I also think Co-op wasnt as proactive as it shouldve  been regarding alternative  
accommodation in January 2019.  But I also think there were times where Co-op were 
waiting to hear back from Ms M or needed further information to progress the claim. So 
taking everything into account I think Co-op should  pay Ms M a total of £350 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her during the course of these claims. This 
should include the £175 already offered to Ms M.
Ms M responded stating that there  were  ongoing issues with her contents  which was sent 
into storage and considered under a separate complaint. But she made no comment  on the 
issues involved in this complaint.
Co-op responded to say that the delays were  caused by Ms Ms failure to have the second 
leak fixed which was Ms Ms responsibility. It says there was no suggestion that it needed to 
remove the cupboards  at the beginning of the claim, and this only became necessary when 
the property wasnt  drying  due to the second leak. So it remains of the opinion that the £175 
offered is fair in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld.
Ms Ms comments  relate  to an issue that was considered under a separate  complaint with 
this service so arent something Im able to comment on here. And as they relate  to Ms Ms 
contents rather than the works that were  completed, Ms Ms comments dont affect the 
findings I reached on this complaint.
Co-op replied to my provisional decision to say that the delays were caused  by the second 
leak, which Ms M failed to get fixed.  But Ive checked the claim notes and I cant see thats 
the case. The notes make it clear that the drying  process hadnt  been affected by the leak as 
the water  was turned off during that period  so I remain  of the opinion that the delays in 2018 
are due to Co-op  not handling the claim as well as it should have. However  I do agree that 
delays were caused by Ms M failing to have the leak fixed  effectively at the beginning of 
2019  and I have already considered this as part of my provisional decision.
Co-op also replied to my provisional decision to say that there had been no suggestion that 
the cupboards  needed  to be removed at the beginning of the claim and this only became 
necessary as the property wasnt drying  due to the second leak.  But the claim notes from 21 
August 2018 state that all units will need  to be removed from the window side of the 
kitchen. It seems that the kitchen units werent  removed until December 2018, which I 
believe caused a delay in the drying  process so I remain of the opinion  that these should 
have been removed sooner and that failing to do this caused a delay  in drying the kitchen.
The comments made by both parties  dont change my decision and I see no reason to 
depart from my original  findings on this case.  I think Co-op caused avoidable delays of 
around two to three months and wasnt  as proactive as it shouldve been in finding Ms M 
alternative accommodation in January 2019.  But there were also times, particularly later in 
the claim,  where  the delays were  due to Co-op  needing a response from Ms M. So taking 
everything into account, I think Co-op should  pay Ms M a total of £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Ref: DRN97608454my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Co-op Insurance  Services  Limited  should  
pay Ms M a total of £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9760845