K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his home  emergency  
claim. Hes also complained that he was mis-sold  the policy and about  the service  he 
received.
background
Mr C contacted Admiral after the lock on his internal loft hatch  broke. He was worried  that 
this could cause  the door to break and wanted to claim under the windows, locks and doors 
section of his home emergency cover.
Admirals call handler told him he wasnt covered under his policy for this. Mr C complained..
Admiral said the section of home emergency cover  relating to windows, doors  and locks was 
just for making the home secure. It said his home was still secure as no-one  could get in 
through the roof. So it thought replacing the lock should  be classed as general  maintenance 
which wasnt covered  by his policy. It accepted that the call handler could have explained  
more clearly why it was declining the claim.
Mr C also felt the policy had been mis-sold to him. Admiral said hed already made a 
different home emergency claim under the policy which had been accepted. So it didnt 
agree that the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.  He also mentioned that he hadnt  been given a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions. Our investigator didnt uphold it. As Mr C didnt 
agree, the matter  has been referred  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has home emergency covered provided  by Admiral. His policy defines an emergency  
as:
A sudden and unforeseen  incident  in your home  which  immediately:
Exposes you or a third party to a risk to health  or;
Creates a risk of loss or damage  to your home  and/or any of your belongings or;
Makes your home uninhabitable.
Emergency repairs to windows, doors and locks are covered if the damage results  in the 
home not being secured.  Im not persuaded that a broken  lock on the hatch leading up to the 
loft was a home emergency. In particular I dont  think it created an immediate risk of loss or 
damage to Mr Cs home or belongings.  Thats because Mr C hasnt shown that the hatch 
door is an external  door that needs to be kept secured. Instead it appears to lead up to an 
internal loft. So I dont  think  Admiral  treated  him unfairly or unreasonably in declining  his 
claim.
Ive listened to the call when Mr C first contacted Admiral about this claim. I dont agree its 
call handler was unprofessional. Its often  not easy to explain the detailed  reason why a 
Ref: DRN97742182claim is being declined  in a phone call to someone  whos not familiar with the policy 
terms. But I think she seemed to be doing her best.
Mr C has also said he believes  the policy was mis-sold to him as he wasnt  provided  with 
the full terms and conditions of the policy. Admiral  has sent me evidence showing the full 
terms and conditions were made  available to Mr C in the form of being uploaded to its 
portal system  on the day the policy started. Mr C could also have asked  Admiral  to send 
him a copy  of the terms and conditions at any time if he was having  difficulty accessing 
them but he didnt.  In any event Id find it hard to say that this policy  had been  mis-sold 
when Mr C has previously made another home  emergency repair claim which  was 
accepted. 
In conclusion Im not persuaded  that Admiral has treated Mr C unfairly  or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774218