K820x#14complaint
Mrs L, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr L, says Nationwide  Building  Society  mis-sold  
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L and the late Mr L took out a PPI policy in 1999  and 2001.  The sales  took places in 
meetings when they applied first for their mortgage,  and then for a further advance.  Both 
policies were in Mrs Ls sole name.  The 1999  policy gave her unemployment cover, the 2001  
policy gave her accident and sickness cover. They paid a monthly  amount  for them.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that the PPI was optional   and they had to 
agree to take it out. I cant know what was discussed during the sales. So Ive looked  
carefully at the paperwork available. Their  1999 mortgage application shows  they selected  
unemployment cover  for Mrs L, and not the more common  package of accident,  sickness  
and unemployment.  This suggests to me there  was discussion  with the society  and they 
understood they had options. Nationwide has provided a sample of a form showing the same 
section when PPI hasnt been  selected.  It reads You have not selected this type of 
insurance cover at this time. This suggests to me Nationwides sales  process at the time 
gave customers the choice to select or decline PPI. The cost of the cover  was also set out 
separately on their 1999 mortgage offer.
Their 2001 further advance application  form shows they selected accident and sickness 
cover for Mrs L and she signed separately  to confirm this. Again,  they had opted to tailor the 
cover rather  than take the full package, suggesting it was discussed  in the meeting and they 
understood they had options. The further advance offer also set out the cost of the PPI 
separately. 
Overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made  it clear the PPI was optional  and Mr and 
Mrs L agreed to take it out for Mrs L.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs L so it didnt have  to check  
the policies were right for Mrs L. Mrs L recalls that they were  recommended to them.  
However, I dont need to make a finding on this point as even if Nationwide had 
recommended the PPI I think it was right for Mrs L. I say this because shes  told us she had 
savings worth at least six months salary  but the 1999 policy  offered her up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. It would have allowed her to use any savings to cover  other  living 
Ref: DRN92673532expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact  for their future needs. Mrs L says she 
was entitled to some sick pay but the 2001  policy would have paid out in addition to any 
work benefits and for up to 12 months.
So, overall, I think the 1999 cover  wouldve have been useful for Mr and Mrs L if Mrs L lost 
her job, and the 2001 cover if she was sick and unable to work.. And as they were paying for 
it monthly, they could  cancel the PPI if Mrs Ls situation changed  or she no longer wanted it.
Mrs L has asked why the policies werent in joint names as the mortgage was. As the 
adjudicator explained, the cost of the policies was based on the benefit  they paid and so 
wouldnt have changed if the benefit  had been split and the cover was joint. This means they 
would only have been worse off if Mr L had needed to make  a claim. But Ive seen no 
evidence of this so theres no loss to put right.  
Nationwide also had to give Mr and Mrs L enough information so they could decide  for
themselves whether they wanted to buy PPI. Its possible the information the society  gave 
Mr and Mrs L wasnt as clear  as it should  have been.  But I dont think  they wouldve been put 
off taking out the policies  if they had received  better information. I say this because:
Mrs L was eligible for the policies given  her circumstances at the time and the terms 
and conditions.
With regards the 1999  policy, Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting 
the policys main benefits, such as those on certain types of employment contract. As 
she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it unlikely she needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.  
With regards the 2001  policy, Mrs L told us she had a pre-existing medical condition. 
But for two reasons  I dont think better information  on the relevant exclusion would 
have changed  her decision.  I say this because this policy  only excluded pre-existing 
conditions for the first 12 months.  After  12 months she could have made a related 
claim. But, more importantly, from what shes told us her condition  was under control 
since diagnosis. Given the 30-day  claim  waiting period I dont think she would have 
expected to ever need to make a related claim.  
The costs were  set out in the mortgage  and further advance  offers,  and the policies 
were competitively priced and apparently affordable.
In summary,  it seems  Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the policies for Mrs L and so appear to
have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different  decision if
better information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have  taken out the
policies.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Ref: DRN92673533Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9267353