K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about UK Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about  the valuation  of 
her car following a claim on her car insurance policy. 
background
Miss W made  a claim on her car insurance  policy.  But she didnt think  that the valuation  of 
her car by UKI was fair. It initially offered her £26,800 for her car before going on to increase 
the valuation to £27,730. 
But Miss W wasnt happy with the valuation. This was because she thought  that she wasnt  
able to buy a similar car, with similar mileage  and extras for that amount  so she complained 
to UKI and then this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He looked at all 
the motor valuation guides in order to see if UKIs valuation seemed fair. And as his research 
of the guides came  back with similar values he decided UKIs offer was reasonable. 
As Miss W didnt agree the matter  has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
This service doesnt value  cars but looks to ensure that insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way in valuing a consumers vehicle. When  looking  at valuations placed  on cars I 
consider the approach the insurer has adopted. And decide whether or not the amount 
offered is fair in all the circumstances. 
As outlined  by the adjudicator this service pays particular attention to the various trade 
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides. 
This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars and magazine 
articles; although I place less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is 
because cars dont generally  sell for the price  at which they are advertised.  The condition of 
the car at the time the damage occurred is also an important factor to consider. But I will only 
tell a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Miss W has said that she has been  unable to find a similar car for the price 
UKI has offered.  She has provided some adverts for similar cars advertised  for more than 
UKI offered. 
But, as Ive suggested above,  cars dont generally  sell for the amount that they are 
advertised for and the guides  take account  of negotiations that usually  take place when 
people buy cars. And the guides have  provided values for her particular make  and model of 
car in good  condition with similar specification. Indeed,  Miss W has provided  a valuation 
from around the time that is in line with the guides. It should be noted that not all additional 
extras add value  to car once it is a few years old.
Ref: DRN93424652So, having  looked at all the guides  and valuations provided I think that UKIs  offer is fair. 
Valuing cars is far from an exact science  but having  considered the valuations  arrived at 
from the various guides and the engineers own valuation Im satisfied that UKIs  offer seems 
fair.
Finally, I can see that Miss W wasnt happy  about  the service  UKI provided when she 
complained about the valuation. And although  I understand  why she has complained  about  
this and UKI couldve been clearer  about  how it was dealing with her complaint, I dont think 
this affected her complaint journey. The complaint  about the valuation of her car was 
considered in full by UKI and then referred  to this service. So I dont think  that UKI needs  to 
do anything further  about this.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9342465