K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2011. The policy covered Mr L only. Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Nationwide has sent us its record of Mr and Mrs Ls application for the PPI. And this shows 
the cost and level of cover  was discussed and that Mr and Mrs L wanted to proceed with the 
PPI application.
Nationwide has also sent us evidence that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage had been  running for 
around eight years  when  the PPI was sold. So I dont think Mr and Mrs L can reasonably 
have thought they needed to take the PPI in order to get their mortgage.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Nationwide made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs L that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs L chose to take it, knowing they didnt 
have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L any personalised advice 
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means Nationwide 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs L. But it did have to make sure 
they got the information they needed in order to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr L was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So it would 
have been useful for Mr and Mrs L if something went  wrong.
Mr and Mrs L have said that Mr L had a medical  condition as the time of the sale.  But this 
policy provided cover for unemployment only. So any medical  conditions  Mr L had wouldnt 
have affected  his ability to claim on the policy. And so I still think  the policy would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs L. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs L off taking  it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN99437622To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9943762