K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 on a 
credit card. Mr S says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed and he has told us he was entitled to between 6 and 12 
months sick pay benefits from his employer.  But he didnt have any other means   such  as 
savings  to make his credit card repayments  should  he be unable to work.  Mr S has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale.
 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ss credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
Capital One has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account remains open.
Mr S has said that he didnt feel he was given enough information and felt forced  to take it, 
rather than having  an option. He felt pressured  into taking it and unable to say no.   
He has added as far as he can recall, he sought  advice from a call handler at Capital One 
via telephone when completing  the form. He said that he was told if he didnt tick for PPI, his 
application couldnt be processed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said he didnt want, need  or use the PPI, so he thought he was mis-sold  it. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities   that is, 
what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN94337952Capital One has said it didnt speak with Mr S during the application process. But as any call 
would have taken  place before he became a customer of Capital One, I dont think its likely  
there would be a record of any call. However, even if a call did take place, Mr S proceeded 
to complete a postal  application. Looking at the application form Mr S completed when he 
took out the credit card by post, it included a section called Additional  information which 
asked if he wanted  to take out PPI cover. Mr S ticked yes, but there was also the option for 
him to tick no if he didnt want the cover.  And Mr S has made other selections on the 
application form and signed it. So, I think Capital One made  it clear  Mr S had a choice about 
taking the PPI and he chose to take it knowing he didnt have to  although given the 
passage of time, I can understand if he cant remember this.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr S got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. Mr S says he 
did have sick pay benefits from his employer, but no other  means to make  his repayments. 
But the PPI would have paid out on top of any sick pay and I think this would have been  
helpful if his sick pay dropped after six months. So I think it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Capital One has also said that Mr Ss credit card account is still open, but it hasnt been used 
for some time. And its said the PPI policy is still live on the account. If Mr S doesnt want PPI 
he should let Capital One know  so it can be cancelled. 
Ref: DRN94337953my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Donna Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9433795