K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Ms A complain  that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) have failed to handle  a claim on 
their buildings insurance policy promptly.
background
There was an escape of water at Mr O and Ms As home in January 2017  which  caused 
significant damage to the property. The property needed drying  out before repair works 
could start and UKI appointed a company to do this on its behalf.
There were delays in the drying works  starting  and the contractor appointed to complete  the 
building work  agreed to take over the drying  works.  The schedule  of work was agreed and 
started in April 2017.
Mr O and Ms A were  unhappy with the quality of the works being carried  out and these 
issues were raised with the contractors in July 2017.  A site meeting took place at the end of 
August 2017 to discuss the snagging  on the property. Following this it was agreed  the 
contractor appointed to complete the work  should  be replaced. When the complaint was 
brought to us in January  2018 a new contractor  had not been  instructed.
Mr O and Ms A are unhappy that during the process of this claim they had no project  
manager available as the one appointed  had been off sick. They also believe there was a 
conflict of interest with the project  manager  as they were also an employee of the 
contractors appointed to do the work.  Overall  they feel the delays with the contractor being 
replaced have  been  unreasonable.
In January 2018 UKI looked at everything  that had happened and said it was sorry the 
service had fallen  below the standards  it expects. It agreed things should have been  done 
sooner and there were delays which added to the distress and inconvenience of the 
situation. It paid Mr O and Ms A £1,500.00  to apologise for this and said it would be 
appointing new builders to finish the works.
Mr O and Ms A brought the complaint  to this service as they didnt think £1,500.00 was fair. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He agreed  there had been some  significant delays 
in the work being completed on Mr Os house. But he felt the £1,500.00 offered  by UKI was 
fair compensation for this and in line with what this service would have awarded.
Mr O and Ms A didnt agree. They reiterated  that they were unhappy with the delays in the 
contractor being  changed and that they had no project manager.  They  also explained a little 
more about the impact  of the delays  on their relationship. And that during this time Ms A has 
been seriously ill and this should have been  taken account of.
Mr O and Ms A also said they were  unhappy  with the disturbance allowance  that had been 
paid and that bills hadnt been reimbursed by UKI. Our investigator looked again  said he still 
felt the £1,500.00 compensation offered  was fair. And he wasnt able to comment on the 
disturbance allowance or utility bills which hadnt  been paid as UKI hadnt  had a chance to 
respond to these new complaint points.
Because of this the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN93867802my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint  
for much the same reasons as our investigator.
Im aware Mr O and Ms A still have ongoing  issues with their claim and new concerns have 
been raised with UKI. But based  on our rules and what I can look at, Ive only considered 
UKIs actions up to its response to Mr O and Ms A in January 2018.
It isnt disputed that UKI hasnt met its obligations  to settle this claim promptly and it has 
acknowledged this. What I need  to consider is whether the payment it has made to 
compensate Mr O and Ms A for this failing is fair, and if not, whether it needs  to do anything 
further. 
It is clear from the start of this claim process  there  were delays. And as well as the normal  
inconvenience expected when building works are required, Ms A also had to deal with the 
added distress of being  unwell  during this time.
This has impacted  on Mr O and Ms A and caused them  a great deal of upset and frustration.  
Especially with the delays in the original contractors employment being terminated  and 
replaced. 
Some of the delays were  due to the contract  agreed  by UKI and the builders and the 
difficulties in terminating this. Mr O and Ms A dont feel this contractor should have been 
paid. This is a decision for UKI to make as it is allowed to decide  how to settle the claim and 
the policy terms set this out. But this doesnt take away from the fact a new contractor should 
have been appointed sooner. And in this not being done has meant  Mr O and Ms A have 
been unable  to return to the house for longer than would be accepted.
I agree  the handling of this claim could  have been  better. And I think  UKI has acknowledged 
its failings here. Taking into account everything  Mr O and Ms A have said about the impact  
on them,  I think it has paid what Id consider to be fair compensation to put things right  and 
this sum is reflective of what I would have awarded in this case had UKI not recognised this 
and made  the payment.
So taking account of everything  that Im able to, up until January 2018, I think UKI has 
offered a fair outcome  for this complaint  and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr O and Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386780