K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Scottish Widows Limited failed to inform him that he was required to keep 
trust monies  separate  from his personal funds before transferring the proceeds of the late 
Mrs Ws investment  to his personal  bank  account.
background
Mr M received and distributed  the funds after supplying appropriate documentation. He then 
received a letter from Scottish  Widows  informing him that proceeds must be kept separate  
from personal funds. The wording of the letter suggests it was intended to reach him prior to 
the transfer.
Mr M complained about this letter arriving  after the money had been paid out. He also felt 
the letter provided legal advice, something  he thought Scottish  Widows  was not authorised  
to give. He also raised further concerns  about  how it had dealt with the distribution of the 
funds and its subsequent handling  of his follow-up queries  and eventual  complaint.
He felt its replies had been unclear or somewhat contradictory, particularly its clear reference  
to must hold funds  in a separate account then being downgraded to should. He felt it had 
failed to explain its precise legal or regulatory  requirements and believed  its actions broke 
the trust,  something  he said he would pursue with the Financial Conduct Authority.
He was also unhappy it sent him a £50 apology cheque wrongly addressed  to Mr H.
Scottish Widows  upheld  Mr Ms complaint,  admitting it could and should have informed him 
about keeping  this trust money separate from his own funds before actually putting the funds 
in his personal account. But it said that while it had, in the past,  insisted on a trustee or 
trustees having a discrete account  for the payment  of proceeds (separate from their own 
accounts) it had relaxed this policy in recent years. So the word must (have a separate 
account) had been incorrect.
In this case, it said it knew Mr M was the sole surviving trustee and was satisfied it was 
reasonable to pay the money  into his account  as long as it spelt out that he must pay this 
money to the beneficiaries as outlined  in any Will.
It apologised  for wrongly writing Mr H on the initial £50 cheque  and said it would now send 
him a cheque for £100 in lieu of both issues.
Finally, it said it had no details about  the beneficiaries or any contractual  relationship with 
them so it could not send a cheque  directly to them or communicate with them in any way.
An investigator at this service felt Scottish Widows explanation was reasonable and so did 
not feel the complaint should  be upheld.
Mr M disagreed, and said:
Scottish Widows  had the practice of paying trust money into dedicated bank 
accounts but had forgotten why it was important
It also accidentally gave legal  advice not simply legal information
Ref: DRN93094312Mixing trust money and non-trust money  makes the trust fail and Scottish Widows 
broke the trust by paying money into a non-dedicated account
While  trustees  can still pay out money  - unaware  the trust is broken, if there is any 
legal action it will find that the trust was broken and the beneficiaries  will not benefit
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Firstly, I should explain  that my role is to decide  whether a business clearly did something 
wrong (not whether  they might have done  things differently) and, crucially,  whether the 
person concerned suffered as a result of it. If so, my role is to assess  potential losses  and 
compensate them accordingly.
In this case I have seen no evidence that Mr M, personally or as a trustee, has suffered 
financially, or that the beneficiaries of Mrs Ms Will have lost out financially.
I recognise, as did Scottish Widows,  that it should have sent out the letter in question  before 
processing the payment  if it felt this was something it should do at all. But I am not 
convinced it was required to spell out Mr Ms legal responsibility to distribute the entire sum 
to the beneficiaries,  although it seems good practice to do so. So I neither think it was 
required to send the letter out in advance of the pay-out nor do I think this constituted legal 
advice which  it should not have provided.
So I am satisfied that its payment of £100 is fair and reasonable taking into account  its 
limited failings.
I have considered Mr Ms other arguments but I do not accept that Scottish Widows did 
anything fundamentally wrong or that Mr M suffered financially as a result  of the minor 
mistakes it made. My role at this service  is not to seek to rule on legal questions such as 
whether Scottish  Widows technically broke  the trust in paying the money into Mr Ms 
account but to decide  whether, on balance, a business has behaved fairly and reasonably.  In 
this case, I am satisfied  that  broadly-speaking   Scottish Widows did.
I note Mr M has made a complaint about how this service handled his complaint. This will be 
dealt with separately and via a dedicated manager rather than me.
final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9309431