K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt with a claim on his motor  
insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car was stolen and he made a claim on his AXA policy. It said it might settle the claim 
on a total loss basis and gave a value for the car. His stolen car was recovered and AXA 
rescinded its original offer. Before the car was recovered Mr H bought  a new car. He is 
unhappy that this left him paying  for two cars.  
AXA says it was going to get the recovered  car repaired but there  was an issue  with what  
was found in it that led to a police investigation  and Mr H later didnt  want  it repaired. As hed 
bought another car it agreed to deal with it as a total loss. Any delays to the claims process 
were unavoidable. The finance company was paid £12,900 on 21 September  2018. The 
agreement was for more  than it paid so Mr H would still have been paying off the 
outstanding balance which wasnt adversely affected by any delay in paying the settlement.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The car was stolen on 7 April 2018.  Mr H made a claim on his AXA policy which  was 
subject to an excess of £1,150. On 12 April 2018  AXA said it had valued  the car at 
£14,050 so if it was to settle the claim Mr H would receive £12,900.  At no point did it 
say the claim was approved. It also said any payment would be made towards  
clearing the finance on the car but made clear if the stolen car was recovered  before 
the claim was settled the offer would no longer  be valid as it would see if it could  be 
repaired.
The car was recovered.  The policy says AXA is entitled to repair the car if it wants  to. 
It hasnt done  anything wrong  in wanting to repair the recovered car. But Mr H didnt 
agree to it being repaired. Hed already bought another car but shouldve waited to 
do so until AXA had fully paid out on the claim.  AXA eventually decided  to settle as 
the car was costing  too much to store. 
AXA tried to settle the claim  in line with the policy terms and conditions.  It didnt act 
unfairly by trying  to repair  the car and wasnt to blame for the delay that occurred. 
And he will not be asking it to do anything more.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says he didnt say he 
wouldnt accept the recovered car back and he agreed to it being repaired. At no point did he 
refuse the repair. He asked for the car to be written off as it had been involved in crime. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ref: DRN96580852I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
AXA valued  Mr Hs car shortly after he made the claim and said if it was to settle  the claim it 
would pay out £12,900 after deducting  his excess.  This would  be paid to his finance 
company. But it didnt approve  the claim at this time and made clear that if the car was 
recovered before the claim was settled it would  revoke this valuation  and investigate whether 
the car could  be repaired. That was all in line with the policy  terms which allow  it to consider 
whether to repair the car or deem  it a total loss.
There were some police  issues with the recovered cars contents and this led to some delay 
in dealing with things. In addition Mr H was understandably reluctant to get the car back 
given what had happened.
Ive seen nothing  to show Mr H approved  the repair of the car although he apparently  asked 
if it could be repaired.  Whatever was said AXA decided to deal with the car as a total loss. 
This was because of the mounting  storage costs  and it appears because its engineer was 
also aware Mr H had bought a new car. And in September 2018 AXA paid the finance  
company £12,900  towards the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. This was all 
in line with the policys terms and conditions.
It was Mr Hs decision to buy a new car when he did and before he knew the outcome of his 
claim. As such I think  he willingly  took the risk of his stolen car being  recovered, repaired 
and returned to him later and that if that happened  he would therefore own and have to pay 
for two vehicles. I cant reasonably hold AXA responsible for this and it wouldnt be fair for 
me to require it to reimburse Mr H for any payments he had to make towards the balance  
owed on his finance agreement after the settlement  was paid.
Overall I think  AXA reasonably attempted to deal with this claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. As such I think it has acted fairly and I dont think  I can now require it 
to do anything more  or differently including paying  Mr H any compensation.
Although I recognise  Mr Hs frustration I dont  therefore see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9658085