K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I recently issued a provisional decision  on this complaint, which included the following:
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI policy in 1994.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy 
which covered their monthly  mortgage payments if Mr H couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, I currently intend  to uphold this complaint. This is because I dont think YBS 
gave Mr and Mrs H clear  enough information  about  the policy. 
Unfortunately, I dont have a copy of a policy document from 1994 although I do have one 
from 1995. I think its most likely an accurate reflection of the cover Mr and Mrs H took out 
the previous year. Looking at the policy document from 1995, its definition  of 
unemployment required that the insured was not working for any payment, profit or 
reward 
In bringing the complaint to us (and subsequently), Mr H mentioned he had three jobs in 
1994. But our adjudicator  recently sought  clarification  from Mr H and it seems he didnt take 
on a third job until several years after the PPI was sold. That Mr H was mistaken doesnt 
surprise me given how long ago these events  took place.
Nevertheless, on balance  Im satisfied Mr H had at least two jobs when Mr and Mrs H bought 
the PPI. 
This is important because it effectively meant Mr H would  have  had to lose both of his jobs in 
order to claim  on the policy for unemployment  benefits. This would have made it much more 
difficult for him to claim than if hed only had one job. That being  the case, I dont think 
Mr and Mrs H would  have bought the PPI if YBS had given them enough  information  for 
them to decide  if it was right for them. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of how YBS sold them  the PPI and that it 
should put things right for them.
Ref: DRN99106622putting things right
YBS should  put Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs H the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  YBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give 
Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and require Yorkshire  
Building Society to put things right for them as explained above.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
YBS confirmed it had nothing further  to add to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H said 
they agreed with the provisional  decision but felt there were  additional reasons why their 
complaint should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. Although Mr and 
Mrs H believe  there are further reasons why I should uphold  their complaint, I see no need to 
address them now. Thats because YBS hasnt sought to challenge the reasons Ive already 
given for upholding it. As far as Im concerned, those reasons still stand.
Ref: DRN99106623my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I require Yorkshire Building 
Society to put things  right for them as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9910662