K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy  with his home contents insurance provider, Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited, in relation to a claim  he made  to it for an item specified on his policy that was stolen 
from him whilst he was away on holiday.
background
Mr O was in a nightclub whilst on holiday. He exchanged  numbers with a lady.  He left the 
nightclub to get some  food and, just before five am, messaged the lady. He met her in the 
lobby of his hotel and they went to Mr Os room. Mr O woke up the next day to find his watch  
was missing. The watchs value (as specified on Mr Os insurance  schedule)  was £9,700.
Mr O reported the loss to the local police. He told them that once in the room the lady kept 
filling his glass with alcohol and telling him nothing would happen until hed finished his 
drink. The couple  then had sexual relations and Mr O fell asleep wearing his watch. Mr O 
said that when he woke he felt drugged  and noted his watch  as well as some other 
belongings and cash had gone, as had the lady.
Mr O returned home the following day and he contacted Admiral. Having heard Mr Os 
account of the events the Admiral call-handler said whilst theft in that sort of situation would 
usually not be covered,  it could be passed to a team for review.  That was done and it was 
decided that the claim should  be declined. Admiral didnt tell Mr O about this initially  though,  
or even  when he first chased it for an update. When Mr O chased it again he was informed 
of the decline.
Admiral wrote to Mr O. It said its decline of the claim was correct  because the theft hadnt  
involved any force or violence  being  used to enter  the hotel room. And theft from a hotel 
without force and violence  being  used is excluded from cover. It said it had been  right to say 
it would  review the particular circumstances of Mr Os loss, but wrong  not to tell him straight 
away of its decision  to decline the claim.  It said it would  pay £25 compensation.
Mr O complained to this service. He said hed been deceived by the lady;  she hadnt  been 
using her proper  name when hed met her and he only invited her back to the room  because 
of what she told him. He also felt it wasnt fair that his loss wasnt  covered because the 
watch had been  taken from his wrist and if that had happened on the street, as opposed  to 
his hotel room,  he would  have been covered.
Our adjudicator felt Admiral had been  unfair to decline  the claim. He noted that the policy 
gives cover  for possessions away from the home which are in the care,  custody or control of 
the policyholder.  He also noted that Mr O had been  deceived into inviting the lady to his 
room and that hed been wearing the watch when it was taken from him. Our adjudicator, 
therefore, felt Admiral  should accept and settle Mr Os claim.
Admiral disagreed. It said that in terms of cover for specified items away from the home, the 
policy also excluded theft by deception. Admiral also said there was no proof that Mr O had 
been wearing  the watch  at the time it was taken.  And it felt that in all of the circumstances, 
that was an unlikely  scenario.  Overall it felt that it was Mr Os act of inviting the lady to his 
room that had allowed  the theft to occur  so it wasnt fair to expect it to cover  the loss.
Because no agreement could  be reached the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
Having reviewed the circumstances and the policy wording, I didnt think  Mr Os complaint 
Ref: DRN90384262should be upheld.  I issued a provisional  decision to both parties explaining  that whether or 
not Mr O had been wearing his watch  at the time it was stolen, there  were  relevant 
exclusions that Admiral  could fairly rely on that meant Mr Os claim failed.
Admiral said it agreed with my findings.  Mr O said he was disappointed by the outcome but 
hed given an honest account and there  was nothing  more  he could do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr O has given an honest account  of what  occurred. But the issue here is 
whether he has cover,  for his loss, in those circumstances, under Admirals policy. I remain 
of the view, for the reasons copied  below, from my provisional findings, that he does not.  
I know Mr O feels he was deceived. But the policy excludes cover  in that circumstance. It 
also excludes cover  where there is no forced and violent  entry  to a hotel  room.  There  is also 
a further exclusion  for thefts  where the item stolen wasnt  in the care, custody or control of 
the policyholder.
Ive noted our adjudicators view about the watch having  been  in Mr Os care,  custody or 
control at the time it was stolen. Ive also noted Admirals  response to that. But I think  its 
relevant that the term referred to by our investigator is another  exclusion to cover.  And Im 
not prepared to say that its fair to ignore some exclusions that seem to reasonably  apply (for 
forced and violent entry and deception), just because this exclusion might not. So the item 
being (and I know Admiral  isnt convinced in this respect)  in Mr Os care, custody or control 
isnt sufficient to say Admiral should  reasonably pay the claim. For me to make a finding  like 
that Id have to be satisfied that the other  exclusions cant  fairly  be applied  for some reason 
and Ive not see anything that makes me think that is the case.
Mr O would likely have  been covered for the loss if it had happened whilst  he was wearing 
the watch whilst walking  along the street. But that is a very different scenario. The watch 
would likely  be seen to have been in his care, custody or control, with no other  relevant 
exclusions applying (because  there  was no deception or any hotel room having been  
entered). And stealing something from a persons body whilst in a public place  is a high-risk  
crime. Which means  it is less likely to happen.  And its the type of crime that as a person you 
can do little to guard  against.
In contrast no insurer  wants to offer cover for losses that arise  due to its policyholder  having  
courted a risk. So Admiral, like many  others,  excludes cover for theft from hotel  rooms  where 
no force  or violence is used to gain entry.  Thats because if a policyholder fails to lock the 
door or invites someone in, they are creating or increasing the risk of a theft occurring. 
Similarly people on holiday are often  less cautious so the risk of them  being  deceived is 
higher. And in this case Admiral has chosen to guard  against  that too by excluding  cover for 
thefts by deception.
Given that two exclusions  exist, that even  on the basis of Mr Os own report of the incident to 
the police,  can reasonably be relied upon  by Admiral  to defeat the claim,  I cant fairly make  it 
accept it. Mr O, himself,  created the opportunity that the thief used to enact the robbery. And 
it was that exact circumstance of risk which Admiral had reasonably  sought to protect itself 
Ref: DRN90384263against by use of the forced and violent entry and deception exclusions. Im satisfied that 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when it declined  the claim.
But Admiral shouldnt have delayed in telling Mr O this once it had made  that decision. Im 
satisfied though that £25 compensation  fairly  and reasonably  makes  up for any distress and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Mr Os response  hasnt  changed my view as set out provisionally. My final decision then 
remains the same and my provisional  findings now become  part of this final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make  any award against  Admiral Insurance  Company  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9038426