K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to carry out their 
instruction to cancel  their life insurance  policy, and this resulted in further  premiums  being 
taken and the residual value  falling.
background
Mrs H said she called  Aviva on 5 December  2017 to instruct it to cancel the policies as of the 
end of that month as they had re-mortgaged and taken out new life policies as a result. She 
was told she couldnt cancel the imminent direct  debit but was left with the impression that 
no further payments  would be taken.
She says Aviva told her she would have to fill in several forms to claim the residual value of 
£250 but did not explain that it needed a letter of no further  interest from their lender.
Due to various personal circumstances  they did not purse this issue  immediately and so 
didnt expect to receive  a surrender value  cheque straight away. But they were surprised to 
discover direct debits were still being  taken when they checked in April 2018. Aviva then told 
them they could  have cancelled their direct  debit in December but Mrs H said shed been 
explicitly told not to do this during the December phone call. She also said Aviva  had not 
made sufficient efforts  to obtain the no further  interest letter.
Mr and Mrs H said they wanted  the £262  of direct debits refunded along with the residual 
value; plus compensation for the trouble and upset  this issue  had caused.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
He said that Aviva could  not pay the surrender value until its requirements  - including 
receiving the letter  of no further interest  - had been  met. Premiums were payable  until the 
policy was surrendered so even if Mr and Mrs H had cancelled their direct debit charges 
would have continued to be been  deducted  from the policys value.
Overall, he didnt believe Aviva had given Mr and Mrs H misleading information.
Mr and Mrs H did not agree, and said:
They have never satisfied the supposed  surrender requirements by providing a letter  
of no further interest, so clearly  this document was not a pre-condition of the 
surrender as Aviva cancelled the policy after the funds ran out
If they had been told they could cancel their direct  debit  back in December 2017,  they 
would have saved  themselves £262
What has happened  to their surrender value? How have the funds been administered  
such that this money has disappeared?
The adjudicator  did not address the question of the loss in residual value
Aviva  did not make  sufficient efforts to get the required letter from their lender, and 
theyve had no explanation for the lenders  apparent failure to respond to Aviva
Theyve also tried without success to get a copy of the letter. Is there  a case  to be 
answered by the lender for its failure  to act?
Ref: DRN92378062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
I also agree  that the Aviva  advisor did not mislead Mrs H during the key phone call and while 
she may well have  felt the direct  debit would lapse after the end of December I cannot  say 
this was the advisors fault. It was therefore  for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether  to cancel 
their direct debit before the surrender had been  completed.
It is standard  practice for an insurer to seek a no further interest letter  from the relevant 
lender in these  types of situations  so I cannot  say that Aviva  was wrong to do this. It was, 
however, in my view,  fully entitled  to lapse the policy if its value ran out whether or not it had 
received such a letter. So while Mr and Mrs H needed  this letter  to cancel the policy and 
receive any surrender  value, Aviva did not need it in order to lapse, and then cancel a policy 
where it had no residual value  particularly once premiums had been  stopped.
It is not Avivas contractual responsibility to obtain  such a letter, so whether it could have 
pursued this issue more promptly or vigorously,  is not sufficient reason to uphold  this 
complaint. While it made some effort and was ultimately unsuccessful,  it was Mr and Mrs Hs 
responsibility to obtain  this document.
It is for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether to bring a complaint against their mortgage provider 
who allegedly failed  to deal with their request promptly.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9237806