K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is about  the handling of a claim under their home emergency 
section of their home insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
UKI uses agents to handle claims on its behalf.  As those  agents are acting on UKIs  behalf, 
all references to UKI in this decision  should be read as including  anything said and done by 
those agents.  
background
On 20 November 2018 UKI sent a contractor  out to deal with a radiator which  had fallen off 
the wall and the heating pipe broken. The contractor had to turn off the internal stop valve to 
isolate the radiator but it was apparently difficult  to access  and was stuck. He therefore 
turned the water  off from the external  stop valve and the radiator fixed. 
After that visit Mr H says he heard water dripping from behind  a kitchen cupboard where the 
stop valve was located and he had no heating.  The internal stop valve  was found to be 
leaking.
UKI went back out the next day (it did try and get someone out that evening  but no one was 
available until around 11pm and this was too late for Mr H). The contractors said that when 
the radiator fell off the wall, it had pulled sludge  and dirt from the open  vented tank into the 
heating system causing a blockage and it would need to be power  flushed;  and that there 
were air locks in all the radiators. However, although  a power flush  was recommended  it 
couldnt be done, as it was a microbore system  (I assume this means  the pipes were too 
small) but a magna filter could be used.  There were a few visits over the next couple of days.  
UKI eventually managed  to clear the blockage by other means and the heating  and hot 
water was working again properly. I understand that UKI also replaced the stop valve. 
I understand the heating and hot water was restored on 23 November 2018  but the pipe 
from the valve still needed to be replaced and UKI therefore returned  on 25 November 2018 
to do this. 
UKI arranged alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs H and their children in a hotel while  
the work  was done to restore the heating and hot water, and said it would consider a claim  
for expenses; it also paid £60 towards electric  heaters and £75 compensation. UKI also 
offered a further  £500 compensation, which Mr and Mrs H initially apparently  accepted but 
then later asked for more.
Mr and Mrs H are very unhappy with the handling  of the claim.  Theyve  made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below:
 the contractors appointed  by UKI didn't carry out the initial  repair properly and the 
radiator is still not fixed to the wall properly. It was put back  on using the same holes 
that were damaged  when it fell off the wall. It is in danger of falling off again.  
 They were left with no heating for five days and their kitchen floor was flooded.
 The contractors left mud on the carpet, marks on the kitchen cupboards, removed 
the top of the boiler and there  is water  damage  to the back  of a cupboard.  Mr and 
Mrs H have provided photos to evidence this and say these things need to be 
rectified. 
Ref: DRN96335612 The contractors kept leaving the door open while they were  working,  so the house  
got even colder.  
 They had to spend three  nights  in a hotel.
 Their daughter caught a chest  infection  due to damp caused by the lack of heating.
 UKIs  contractors agreed  to pay £500  compensation but only if Mr and Mrs H signed  
a confidentiality  agreement. 
Mr and Mrs H want UKI to pay the following: the cost of replacing the carpets and kitchen 
flooring which  they say would be £2,023.19;  the cost of them  having  to run electric  heaters 
£11.76 and the cost of repairing the cover  of the boiler and the cupboard  back  board. Mr and 
Mrs H have also recently told us that they now have a mice infestation, which  they say is 
because of the damp conditions in their property.  
UKI has made a number  of points in response  to the complaint, which  Ive summarised  
below:  
the stop valve was in poor condition and the leak was due to wear and tear not  
necessarily caused by its contractor  it was leaking from a valve  and not the 
handle that he would  have tried to turn. 
Hed tried to turn it with his hand, he didnt  use any tools  on it and when it 
wouldnt turn, he used the external  stop tap instead.  
The leak was not visible  behind the back panel  and Mr and Mrs H only noticed it  
hours later, so the contractor had no way of knowing it was there.
The heating system  stopped working  due to a blockage  in the heating pipes and 
it was not a result of the works that our engineer  carried out.
The engineer  used shoe covers and did not walk through the house without 
these. Any stain visible on the carpet  is due to normal usage and any marks can 
be cleaned by a carpet  cleaner.  It did not leave any marks on the cupboards but 
again any such mark can be wiped  off with a wet cloth (it is a plastic door frame).
No pictures have been provided  of the kitchen floor damage.
The contractors had to put a hose  outside when draining the heating system, and 
also had to come and go to the van but tried to keep  doors shut as much  as 
possible.  
The top of the boiler  had to be removed to access  the pipework.
UKI has refused  to go out again to look at the radiator.  As Mr and Mrs H have said it is still 
loose, it agreed to pay an additional  £50 to the £500  already offered to cover the cost of 
someone independent looking at it. UKI says it has paid in total:  £550  to include the cost of 
fixing the radiator  to the wall; the hotel costs; temporary heaters (£60);  the cost of a mini 
fridge, food and drink  and extra  heating costs (total approximately £108) and another  £75 
compensation. UKI also apologised  for the handling  of a call with Mr H when arranging  the 
appointment on 21 November 2018
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, he didnt recommend that the complaint  be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that UKI had already made a reasonable  offer of settlement. He 
didnt think there was enough  evidence  that UKI was responsible for damage to the carpet, 
securing the radiator or the boards, or for Mr and Mrs Hs daughter being unwell.
Mr and Mrs H do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been  passed 
to me. Mr and Mrs H have made  a number of further  points in response to the investigators 
assessment, which Ive summarised  below: 
Ref: DRN96335613there are a number  of errors and discrepancies  in the investigators  assessment; 
information they have sent in has been missed  and not taken into consideration. 
UKI asked the claims-handlers to come back  and fix the radiator in January 2019 and 
told them  the agents had their own complaints process independent  of UKI and it had 
no control over them. 
The radiator was not fixed back onto the wall properly and so UKI should come back  
and fix to properly.  This work  was covered by the policy and was the reason for the 
initial claim, UKI is therefore responsible.  
The investigator said UKI didnt touch the stop valve but it admits it did. It was not 
leaking before  it attended but was leaking afterwards. He has provided video 
evidence of the water gushing  into his kitchen. 
UKI removed a top board off the boiler and a board  from behind  the cupboard  but 
didnt replace them. 
He can prove the visit to the GP about his daughter and a temperature  gauge 
showing it was 15 degrees in her bedroom in the day time, her bedding was damp 
due to the cold and this was a particularly cold time of year. She was ill as a result of 
the cold. 
UKI had agreed  to pay their home insurance  excess if they had the carpets replaced 
under their insurance. It was wet and muddy outside and the engineer  didnt wear  
show covers. He got mud on the carpet.
If UKI or the contractors had nothing to hide, why did they draw up a legal settlement 
document requiring confidentiality?
UKI admitted in a letter dated 27 November  2108 that it caused damage  to their 
home, which has not been  addressed  by the investigator. 
The £550 paid for the new kitchen floor and paint for the hallway doors. They  have 
not therefore been compensated for the trouble caused to them  and are still left with 
the carpets in the state they are in and the radiator not being properly fixed. 
The investigator has made the matter all about  compensation and not about the 
damage to his home and workmanship.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI did tell Mr H that the agents are regulated  in their own right and therefore responsible for 
dealing with the complaint  but this is not correct. The agents  were acting on UKIs  behalf. 
UKI is the principle insurer  and so it is responsible for this claim and everything done in 
relation to it, on its behalf by the agents.  This complaint is therefore properly set up against 
UKI.
In my opinion, it seems likely that UKIs contractors did cause the leak. There is no evidence 
that the stop tap was leaking  before the contractor tried to turn the stop tap. The stop tap 
may not have broken as a result of any wrongdoing (it may have been inevitable that it 
leaked following  anyone  trying to turn it). However,  although UKI says there was no obvious  
leak when the contractor left Mr and Mrs Hs home, theres also no suggestion that he 
actually checked  it, which I think he should. It is right therefore  that UKI put right any damage 
that happened as a direct result of this. 
Ref: DRN96335614Mr and Mrs H say that their flooring needs replacing as a result of the leak.  They  have 
provided two photos of apparently two different  areas of wood laminate floor. One very close  
up shows the edge of one piece  very slightly lifted (but it is not clear where this is located) 
and the other which appears to be near a doorway (as I can see a threshold bar and 
carpeted area nearby) shows the end of one board has a small chip. These photos dont 
establish that these small  areas of damage were caused by the water leak,  or by UKIs 
contractors in any other way. There is no convincing evidence  that the flooring needs  
replacing and so I do not consider that UKI can reasonably be required to pay for any repair  
or replacement of the flooring. 
There is also a photo showing  a cupboard board  with some water  damage to it. This appears 
to be consistent  with the leak coming  from the stop tap and so UKI is responsible for that, in 
my opinion. 
Mr and Mrs H have complained they were  without heating and hot water for several days. 
However, this was a result of the radiator falling off the wall and a blockage in the system, 
not solely a result of this leak. UKI attended to the radiator on 20 November 2018 and 
apparently restored heating and hot water on 23 November 2018. I have not seen any 
evidence that there  were  any unreasonable or avoidable delays in completing  this work. 
Even if there  were, and even if UKI were solely responsible for the lack of heating,  I consider 
that UKI has done  enough to put this right. UKI paid for Mr and Mrs H and their family to be 
in a hotel and paid for heaters. 
The call notes record that Mr H told UKI on 20 November 2018 that his daughter had croup, 
so she was already  unwell.  There  is also a note of a call on 22 November 2018,  in which    
Mr H says she saw a doctor that day and was prescribed antibiotics  for a chest infection. 
While it is clear that she was unwell, this cannot  reasonably be attributed to anything UKI did 
wrong. Even  if UKI were responsible for the heating failing between 20 and 22 November 
2018 (and I do not consider it was) theres no convincing evidence  that this is the cause of 
her chest  infection.   
Theres also no convincing evidence provided  to me that damp will encourage mice  or that 
they are there solely as a result of anything done  wrong by UKI. 
Mr and Mrs H have also provided some  photos  of small dirt marks on the carpet. They  are 
difficult to see. I dont think this proves these were done by UKIs contractors and even if 
they were that they could not be easily removed by cleaning. I am not persuaded that UKI 
should replace  the carpets. The marks on the cupboard also appear to be easily  removed by 
cleaning. 
Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy with how the contractors worked while in their home, 
including keeping doors open and so on. The contractors have said they needed to come 
and go and keep  doors open at times but that they tried to minimise this. I am not able to 
make any finding about  this, as I cant possibly make any sound  determination  about  
whether their actions  were reasonable or not.  
Mr and Mrs H also say the contractors  didnt put back the board from the top of the boiler. 
UKI says it needed to remove this to access the boiler and theres  no reason to doubt  that. 
While I accept that UKI should therefore  have repositioned  it, theres no evidence provided 
to me that would suggest this is difficult to reposition. 
Ref: DRN96335615UKI has paid a total of £575  in compensation already. I consider that this is sufficient to take 
into account any distress and inconvenience caused by dealing  with the leak, including 
cleaning the carpet and cupboards; repositioning the board on top of the boiler and replacing 
the chipboard  from the back of the cupboard  
Finally, the investigator  said UKI was not responsible for the radiator being loose, as it had 
already come away from the wall and this was what led to the claim. I can see why Mr and 
Mrs H are unhappy with this response. I agree with them that UKI was obliged  under the 
terms of the policy  to properly fix the radiator back and if this was not done  properly then it is 
responsible for that. However, UKI can choose not to do the work itself and to offer a cash 
settlement of the cost of that if it chooses  which  is what it has done here. Mr H has said he 
estimates the cost of this as being over £100 but theres no independent  evidence  of that. 
UKI has paid an additional £50 for this. Theres no evidence £50 is not enough and so I am 
not intending to ask it to pay more for this.  
Overall, it is my opinion that the compensation and expenses already paid by UKI to be 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  and do not consider  it needs to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  U K Insurance Limited, as it has already made  an offer 
of compensation  that is fair and reasonable in full and final settlement of the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633561