K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms M have complained about their mortgage account  held with Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC. They are unhappy that, after taking out what they thought was a two-year  fixed-rate 
product, the fixed rate runs for 25 rather than 24 months.  Mr D and Ms M are also unhappy 
that Barclays will not send  them six-monthly  mortgage statements. To resolve the complaint, 
Mr D and Ms M want Barclays to re-set their mortgage to 24 months at a fixed  rate rather  
than 25 month.
(I note other  complaints have been  made  to Barclays about the administration  of the 
mortgage account for which  compensation has been paid and accepted  by Mr D and Ms M. I 
will not, therefore, discuss those  complaints  here.)
background
In March 2019 Mr D and Ms M discussed  their mortgage requirements with an adviser at 
Barclays, as their current five-year fixed  rate mortgage was coming to an end. They chose a 
product on a two-year fixed rate of 1.49%. 
A Key Facts  Illustration (KFI) was provided showing that the mortgage product would be on 
a fixed rate until 30 April 2021 and that there would be 25 payments at the rate of 1.49%. 
The mortgage offer, accepted by Mr D and Ms M also says this.
Mr D and Ms M accepted  the mortgage offer and completed their product switch with effect  
from 1 April 2019. They are now unhappy that the fixed rate ends on 30 April 2021, as this is 
25 months from the date of commencement, not 24. Mr D and Ms M say that the application 
form clearly shows  a two-year fixed  rate product and that, after theyd left the appointment 
the adviser, Barclays changed this to 25 months  and that this was done without their 
knowledge or consent. 
Mr D and Ms M are unhappy about  this. They also want Barclays to send them six-monthly  
mortgage statements  rather than annual statements. They say that this is because  no two 
mortgage advisers give the same calculations. This has led Mr D and Ms M to conclude that 
the calculations  are so secretive and show such a lack of transparency that it leaves them  at 
the mercy of the bank,  denying them the right to check  their statements.
A complaint was made  to Barclays, but the bank didnt uphold  it. Barclays explained that its 
fixed rate mortgage  products always have specific end dates which cant  be changed.  
Barclays said the mortgage offer showed the end date and Mr D and Ms M had accepted the 
offer.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr D and Ms M brought the complaint to us. An 
investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied the 
documentation was clear about  the date the fixed rate would end. He also said that Barclays  
was under no obligation to provide six-monthly  mortgage statements.
Mr D and Ms M didnt accept the investigators findings. They say that they expected  him to 
focus on a loophole where Barclays took advantage of the time constraint between the end 
of the previous fixed-rate mortgage  and the start of the new rate. Their  old mortgage product  
expired on 31 March 2019. Although  they saw Barclays adviser on 22 March, they only 
received the offer on 1 April 2019,  putting them between a rock and a hard place. This was 
a trick the bank used  to exploit them.
Ref: DRN91416922Mr D and Ms M also say that the Financial Ombudsman Services primary duty is to stop 
financial firms  from exploiting customers by using various loopholes,  rather than blaming 
customers for not rejecting the offer.  They are unhappy that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has failed challenge  Barclays  to explain why an extra  months instalment at the fixed 
rate of 1.49% has been demanded.  As a result, the Financial Ombudsman  Service  has failed 
to protect  them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining  the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service.  We were set up 
pursuant to the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 to be an independent, impartial 
service to resolve disputes  between consumers and financial businesses, deciding  what  we 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  We are not a consumer champion and 
our function  is not to represent consumers in their disputes against businesses.
When we investigate a complaint it is up to us to decide what  information we need and what 
questions to ask both the consumer and the business in order to reach a fair outcome. We 
dont take instructions from either  party, nor do we allow the parties to direct  the course  of 
our investigations. Were we to do so, this would  compromise our independence and 
impartiality.
So although  Ive noted that Mr D and Ms M are insisting that we challenge Barclays to 
provide answers  to their questions, that is not something we can do, because  we dont act 
for them.
As deciding  ombudsman, my role is to review the complaint and to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When Barclays offers a fixed rate mortgage  product, this is usually because the bank has 
itself borrowed funds  in the wider money  markets, with a set repayment date. That is why its 
fixed-rate mortgage  products  also have a set repayment date, in order to tie in with the 
banks own borrowing obligations.  
Ive reviewed all the documentation  in this case. In particular, I note that the KFI is dated 
22 March 2019,  which is the same  date Mr D and Ms M saw the mortgage adviser. I think  it 
is likely  that this document  was created at the time of the appointment and handed to them.
From this I see that the payments  at the fixed rate of 1.49% are for 25 months, ending on 30 
April 2021. After that date,  the rate will be variable, and will be 3.49% above  Bank  of 
England Base Rate, but will not go below  3.49%  for the remainder of the term.
The mortgage offer also contains the same  information. So Im satisfied that the mortgage 
offer, which was accepted by Mr D and Ms M, is clear and not misleading in any way.
Mr D and Ms M say they want me to tell Barclays to re-set the fixed  rate to be over 24 
months, not 25 months. If I understand them correctly, Mr D and Ms M are saying that that 
they want their mortgage to revert to the higher  rate of at least  3.49% at the end of March 
2021 rather than at the end of April 2021.  In other words, they want to pay Barclays  more  
Ref: DRN91416923than the contractual rate of 1.49% for the month of April 2021. Frankly,  that does  not make 
any economic sense, as it would result in Mr D and Ms M paying more than they are 
currently contracted to pay..
In all the circumstances, taking into account the KFI given to Mr D and Ms M before they 
entered into the fixed rate, Im satisfied (a) that the information about the length of the fixed  
rate was clear and (b) that they have suffered no loss or detriment as a result  of the rate 
ending on 30 April 2021 rather  than 31 March  2021.  In fact, this is to their advantage.
With regard to the provision of mortgage  statements,  The Mortgages and Home  Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) says at MCOB 7.5 that lenders must  provide a 
statement at least once  a year.  By providing annual statements,  Barclays is fulfilling its 
obligations in this respect. There  is no requirement  for Barclays to provide six-monthly  
statements in order to allow customers to check if they are being  swindled by the bank, as 
Mr D and Ms M believe to be the case.  But it is always  open to Mr D and Ms M to review 
their mortgage account online, should  they wish to do so.
I appreciate Mr D and Ms M feel Barclays  has tricked them  by taking  advantage  of the 
expiry of their previous fixed-rate mortgage  to switch them onto a new product which they 
now say doesnt  meet their needs.  I doubt  anything I can say will change their perception of 
this, but in all the circumstances,  Im satisfied Barclays  has done nothing  wrong,  either in 
offering a fixed rate ending on 30 April 2021  or in sending only annual mortgage  statements. 
Im also satisfied Mr D and Ms M have  suffered  no financial loss as a result of the fixed-rate 
term being 25 months rather than 24 months.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9141692