K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about some work  that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  did under her 
home emergency policy.
background
Mrs B said that she had home emergency  insurance  with IPA, and shed accepted the extra  
option of a boiler service. She said that when she had her boiler  serviced, the engineer  said 
that it was dangerous and switched it off. Mrs B said that she was left without heating  or hot 
water for nine days, in winter, while IPA arranged to do the repairs.  
Mrs B said that the engineer then returned  to replace three parts.  He replaced the boiler  
lining. He attempted to remove the end of the flue pipe, which  he said risked  water getting 
into the system. While  he was trying to remove the flue pipe, Mrs B said that the engineer  
dislodged the rubber grommet and damaged  the flue chimney, exposing  the wall, but he 
couldnt get the pipe out. She said he then replaced the flue and covered the whole thing 
with glue before leaving. That glue has now disintegrated, leaving her system  at risk again, 
allowing water to go down  the flue into the boiler.  She said the engineer didnt even fit the 
third part, but left it. He promised to return and complete the job, but never did.
Mrs B wanted IPA to replace the flue and guarantee the job. She wanted it to fit the extra 
part. And she wanted IPA to pay compensation, because  temperatures  at this time averaged 
minus six night and day where  she lives,  and IPA hadnt shown any duty of care to her.
IPA said that its engineers  had fitted replacement  parts to restore her boiler to working 
condition. And the engineer had told her that her flue would need to be replaced at some  
time in the future. It didnt agree that its engineers had caused  any damage to her flue. It 
later said that it hadnt touched the flue.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that a home emergency policy isnt 
there to complete  full repairs to things that go wrong in a home. Its there  to resolve  an 
emergency, and sometimes  to provide a temporary fix that to get things working again, or 
stop a problem getting worse, until the householder can provide  a full repair at a later date. 
Our investigator didnt  think that the contractors  that IPA hired had made anything worse. He 
said that they had repaired a boiler which was already damaged, and got it back into working 
order. He said that this had been  done in a reasonable  amount of time. 
Our investigator didnt  think that IPA had to do any more.
Mrs B didnt agree with that. She said she hadnt been given any reason why the named 
parts werent fitted. She also said the engineer had tried to get the flue pipe out of the wall, 
and had further damaged the terminal, but that still wasnt resolved. She said she thought 
that the engineer was genuinely  intending to replace that section, but couldnt, and as a 
result had made things  worse. She said that the previously chipped end was now ripped, 
and the rubber seal where the flue exits her house was previously flush  to the wall, but was 
now hanging  loose.  She said that section would have to be replaced, and a new seal fitted. 
Mrs B also said that shed never received  a recommissioning gas safe certificate after the 
boiler had been brought back into use. Shed had no parts  and labour guarantee. The 
company had never told her the system  was safe to run. She said that she was expecting  
Ref: DRN99379532someone to return,  and fit the remaining part, a pressure vessel,  but they never  did. She 
asked whether it was actually safe for her to be running her boiler.
Our investigator didnt  change his mind. He said that a home emergency policy wont 
necessarily cover total repairs of a problem. The policy only required IPA to bring the system 
to working order. The boiler service  cover she had meant IPA didnt have to provide 
guarantees, fit parts or offer a gas safe certificate.  And he would need to see evidence that 
the business caused the damage before  he could  hold it responsible  for that. 
Our investigator said it looked like the contractor thought Mrs B was covered for further work 
on her boiler, so it ordered parts, but then realised  she wasnt  covered. But he said that IPA 
had done what  it was required to do under the policy,  so he couldnt ask it to do any more.  
Mrs B said that wasnt right. The work  on her boiler  had been  authorised  by her insurer. And 
then it had written to her to say the work  was complete. Mrs B also said that it wasnt fair to 
leave her paying the cost of fitting  the pressure vessel and new flue to her house.  She sent 
us a picture which she said showed  that her flue wasnt damaged before the work was done.
Our investigator said IPA wasnt required to fit the pressure vessel  or replace the flue 
terminal. And he said he could see notes which suggested that the flue terminal  was already 
damaged and needed replacing. 
Mrs B still thought that IPA should pay for repairs, so this complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mrs B had a policy with IPA that provided  repairs to her boiler, in an emergency. 
-Mrs B also paid for an optional annual  service of her boiler.  Mrs B didnt complain about 
the servicing on her boiler. But she told us the service declared her boiler  unsafe,  and 
said that it would need repairs. IPA then authorised work under the policy.  
-An engineer  attended her property,  with parts, to make  repairs. But he left before the 
pressure vessel was fitted to the boiler.  He apparently couldnt  get access  to the boiler, 
and agreed with Mrs B that she would have the cover removed before he returned. Mrs 
B said he also attempted to make repairs to the flue and caused damage in the process. 
She said that she wasnt told whether her boiler  was then safe to use, or not. 
-IPAs internal notes  confirmed what Mrs B said about the engineer intending  to return  to 
complete the job. 
-IPA then wrote to Mrs B to say the work  was done. It said its engineers had restored 
your boiler to working condition. That seemed to me to imply that the boiler would be 
safe to use. IPA didnt say then why Mrs B was left with some parts which had not been 
fitted. It seemed  to have told her that the relevant  parts  were fitted. 
Ref: DRN99379533-Mrs B since told us that she asked a gas engineer to check the system  before she 
switched it on, and was told it was safe to use. Fortunately, she hadnt  had to pay for 
that, but I said Id bear that in mind when I was thinking about compensation in this case.
-So we knew that when IPA stopped work  on Mrs Bs boiler,  it was safe to use. We also 
knew that IPA hadnt done all the repairs it had agreed to do. But it did seem to have left 
the boiler safe and working again, as Mrs Bs own engineer  agreed.  
-I needed to think about whether IPA had to do all of the work  it initially  offered to do.
-I thought it was likely that IPA made  a mistake  when  it agreed to do all of this work,  
because it agreed to replace items  like the pressure vessel,  which  didnt need to be 
replaced to bring the boiler back to a safe working condition. Work which  goes beyond  
that required to bring  the boiler  back to a safe working condition didnt seem  to me to be 
emergency work, so wouldnt be covered by Mrs Bs policy.  And I didnt think that IPA 
had to complete  a job, just because it agreed to do some work  by mistake. 
-Because Mrs Bs boiler was apparently safe to use, without the replacement  pressure 
vessel being fitted, I didnt think that IPA had to return  to fit that. 
-But I thought  the issue with the flue was different.  Mrs B said the engineer  made that 
worse. The pictures  shed shown us appeared consistent with what she said about this. 
-Mrs B had shown us photos of the external flue for her central heading, which  she said 
were taken  before and after the engineer visited. I had no reason to dispute  that those 
were before and after photos.  So, on balance, I thought  the photos were  taken when 
she said they were. Mrs B said the problem IPA identified, in the before picture,  was a 
small chip on the flue. That was presumably what IPAs engineer thought might allow  
water to get in.
-I explained that Im not an engineer, but the after pictures did seem to me to show  a 
flue in a different,  and visually  worse, state. From the pictures, it looked as if there  had 
been some interference with the flue, which seemed  to mean that the rubber grommet 
which sits on the outside of the flue was no longer  flush  against the wall. It did seem to 
be flush in the before picture.  And there  was a considerable  amount of what may be 
glue stuck to the end of the flue in the after pictures.
-I thought the pictures were consistent  with what Mrs B said,  that IPAs engineer tried to 
remove the flue to replace  it, but couldnt. So, on balance,  I thought  thats what  
happened.
-I knew that IPA said it didnt damage this part of Mrs Bs property. It later asserted  that it 
hadnt touched the flue, although the job reports from the time didnt seem to me to be as 
clear about whether  the engineer did try to repair the flue. And I noted  that IPA also told 
Mrs B that its engineer had fitted the pressure vessel, when we know  that this part wasnt 
fitted. I thought  it was more likely that IPA had also made a mistake about the flue, and 
its engineer did try to repair it. And I thought it was more  likely than not that this damage 
was caused by the engineers attempted repair. 
-IPA also said that the flue was previously damaged, but that this work wouldnt be 
covered by the policy, so Mrs B had already been advised to repair  it. So I thought  about  
whether it was reasonable in these  circumstances to ask IPA to repair the flue. And I 
Ref: DRN99379534thought it was, because the pictures did seem  to show that the flue was in a significantly 
worse condition after than it was before repairs to it were attempted by IPA. 
-I thought that IPA was responsible for returning the flue to at least the condition  it was in 
before it was damaged. I knew that there were pre-existing problems with it. So I said 
that IPA itself would  need to decide  whether  it was able to return  the existing flue to the 
condition it was in before  it was damaged, or whether  the only practicable outcome 
would be for it to replace the flue.  
-I also needed to bear in mind that Mrs B told us that there were nine days after her boiler  
was condemned,  before an engineer attended  to start repairs.  This happened in winter.  
He then left with the work partially  completed, saying he intended to return,  but didnt. So 
at this point, Mrs B still didnt know if she could  use her boiler to heat her home. She had 
to get another engineer to attend to tell her if it was safe to use her boiler. 
-I thought that all of this caused  a considerable amount of inconvenience,  and quite a lot 
of worry, for Mrs B. So I thought that IPA should also pay Mrs B £400 in compensation, 
to make up for that. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs B wrote to say that she agreed  with my provisional decision. IPA replied to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
IPA said that it thought  that the flue was already damaged, so it didnt think  it should have to 
replace that, and pay £400. It asked if the case could be reviewed by an ombudsman, or 
other third party review. It said that it hadnt  seen the photos. And it said that there was no 
supporting evidence to show that its engineer had damaged the flue. It didnt think  it was 
likely to have caused any crack on the flue during the service, because  the flue wouldnt 
pass a service if it was cracked.
We explained to IPA that this case was at the final stages of consideration, that it could 
make any representations now, and a final decision would then follow. And we sent the 
photos that Mrs B had shared with us.
IPA said it was still difficult to see how the engineer had caused  this damage during the 
service and replacement  of the vessel.  It asked if Mrs B had got a quote for this work, and 
we shared with it a quote that Mrs B had sent us. 
IPA then replied to say that based on the pictures it was inclined to disagree that this was 
caused by its engineer.  It said that it wanted  to ask for this case to be escalated  to an 
ombudsman. IPA said that it would be willing to accept 50% of the costs for the flue and 
£200 in compensation, but it said that placing all the liability on it, based on the available  
evidence, wasnt fair. 
Ive been somewhat concerned by the responses  our service has received from IPA, 
because its not been clear,  even after weve set this out further for IPA, that it has 
understood that this case is with an ombudsman, that Im reaching  a final decision, and IPA 
will then be bound by that decision  if Mrs B accepts it. But we have explained that to IPA, 
Ref: DRN99379535and I dont think it would be fair to Mrs B to delay this case  further so we can set that out 
again. So Ill proceed now with my final decision.  
IPA has suggested  it was unlikely that this damage was caused during a service.  Thats  not 
been suggested by Mrs B. 
What Mrs B said was that her boiler failed  a service. One of the issues  noted then was that 
the flue terminal is also cracked and will need replacing. Mrs B said that was a chip.  Its 
hard to see the extend of the pre-existing damage on the before picture that Mrs B has 
sent us, because this section  seems  to be snipped out of a larger  photo.  Although  thats 
unfortunate, its not surprising. Mrs B had presumably  not taken pictures of all the areas the 
engineer was going to work  on before he started.
IPA has also said that the flue was unlikely  to be damaged during the replacement  of the 
pressure vessel. But thats  not what Mrs B says happened either. And the engineers  notes 
from the second visit say that the pressure  vessel was not fitted.
The same engineer said that 2nd visit was to fit these parts . Theres no specific mention in 
those notes of whether  the engineer tried to fit a new flue (which was one of the parts listed 
as needing replaced)  or not. 
Looking at the pictures that Mrs B has shown  us, I did think that some  things  had changed 
between the before  and after pictures.  Ive reviewed the photos, and I still think that. And I 
still think that the most likely explanation for that is the one that Mrs B has given, that an 
engineer damaged the flue in a well-intentioned  but unsuccessful attempt to remove it. And 
because of that, I think that IPA has to put the flue back  in at least  the condition  it was before 
that damage was done. 
Ive also taken account of the concern caused  to Mrs B, when she was left with a central  
heating system that she thought was partly  repaired,  then was told that no one was coming  
back. I understand that she was worried about whether her boiler  was safe to us, and had to 
get another engineer to check  the system. Ive also taken account  of the fact that all this 
happened during winter.
For those reasons, I still think a payment of £400  in compensation is appropriate in this case.
Ill now make  the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Inter Partner  Assistance SA must return  the flue of Mrs Bs boiler to 
at least the condition it was in before it was damaged. And it must  pay Mrs B £400 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9937953