K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about the decision of Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  
(L&G) to decline her claim under her employers  group income protection insurance  policy.
background
Miss W was a member of her employers group income protection  insurance  policy, held with 
L&G. The policy, after a deferred period of 13 weeks, would pay benefit if Miss W was 
medically unable  to perform an occupation to which she was suited. 
In April 2016, Miss W stopped working  due to work-related stress. She returned later that 
month but then stopped again in June 2016.  In August 2016, she resumed working, initially  
doing 50% of her normal hours but building up to full-time working after two weeks.
In September  2016, her employer made a claim under  the policy on her behalf. L&G 
declined the claim  on the grounds  that Miss Ws absence was related to the workplace 
rather than due to illness. It also noted that Miss W had returned to full-time working  before  
the end of the deferred period.
In November 2016, Miss W again stopped  working.  This time, her GP certified that, as well 
as work-related stress, Miss W was suffering  from depression. Her employer asked L&G to 
reconsider her claim.
In February 2017,  L&G again declined the claim. It didnt think  the evidence supported that 
Miss W was incapacitated by illness from performing a suited occupation. It nonetheless 
agreed to pay eight weeks benefit on a goodwill basis while it provided rehabilitation support 
to Miss W to enable her to return to work.
In April 2017, Miss W began a gradual return to work. However, Miss W didnt increase her 
hours as expected. L&G reviewed the claim but continued to decline it. It could see no 
medical reason  which prevented Miss W from increasing her hours to full-time. Eventually, in 
September 2017, Miss W agreed a reduced-hours contract with her employer which took 
effect the following month. 
In August  2018,  Miss W complained to L&G about its decision to decline her claim. L&G 
issued a final response in which it stood by its decision. Miss W was unhappy at this 
response and so referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
L&Gs decision had been fair.
Miss W didnt accept  the investigators findings.  She pointed  to particular parts  of the 
medical evidence  which she felt supported her claim and challenged L&Gs and the 
investigators interpretation of the various reports and pieces of correspondence.  She said 
that while her absence may have been  triggered  by a change  to her work,  her over-reaction 
to that change was indicative of the fact she was suffering  from an underlying  mental illness,  
of which  she had a family  history.  She maintained that during  the time shed been  absent or 
on reduced hours, she could not have worked full-time in any suited occupation due to the 
way she had been feeling. She considered L&Gs handling of the claim had been poor. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN95838002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
After her employer made the claim in September 2016, Miss W completed a claim form in 
which she told L&G the reason for her absence was work-related stress. It appears that the 
trigger was her employer  had asked her to take on an additional task which  she did not want  
to do. Miss W explained that she had now returned to normal  working hours but was shortly 
intending to undertake a course of cognitive  behavioural therapy  (CBT).  Her GP had also 
certified that work-related stress was the cause of her absence. L&G declined  the claim on 
the basis that Miss W hadnt  shown she was suffering from an illness and, in any case, had 
returned to work before  the end of the deferred period. On the face of it, this seems  a 
reasonable decision.
Miss W went  absent again in November 2016 and her employer asked L&G to reconsider 
the claim.  L&G obtained a report from Miss Ws GP in January 2017. The GP confirmed that 
Miss W had first presented in June 2016 complaining of stress at work. Since then, she had 
been seen regularly at the GP surgery and at times  had been anxious  and stressed,  
particularly when thinking about  work. She had been  assessed  in September 2016  as 
suffering from mild depression (though not anxiety).
I dont find this to be particularly compelling evidence in relation to the spell of absence until 
September 2016. Miss W says that by certifying  her as unfit to work, her GP was certifying 
her as unfit to do any work whatsoever. However, while I recognise that this is how the 
certification system is intended to operate, I would  still have expected  additional evidence or 
information to support  a claim such as this. I dont  think  the GP has added much  to suggest 
that Miss W had been suffering from an illness up until September  2016. It might be that she 
felt unable to return to her job due to workplace stress but I dont consider that Miss W has 
shown she was suffering  from an illness which was so significant that it prevented her from 
carrying out any occupation to which she was suited. I note that Miss W has suggested she 
was suffering from mental illness which caused  her to react irrationally  to the change  
imposed by her employer  but I consider there is a lack of medical evidence to support this. 
The GPs report went on to state  that by December 2016 Miss W had become lower in mood  
and so they discussed the possibility of medication,  though Miss W was keen to avoid this if 
possible. The GP saw Miss W again in January 2017 and, although  she was still suffering 
symptoms of sleeplessness and tearfulness, she was overall  feeling  a lot better and hoping 
to meet  with her employer soon to discuss a return to work. By this time, the GP had started 
citing depression  as a cause  of absence on Miss Ws sickness certificates.
Also in January  2017, L&G arranged for its rehabilitation nurse to speak to Miss W. The 
nurse reported the workplace dispute as being  the trigger  for the absence.  The nurse 
believed that Miss Ws stress  had developed  into depression which  now needed treatment. 
She suggested that anti-depressant medication  be considered alongside counselling  (which  
could be provided  through  L&G), and that this should allow  Miss W to be able to discuss a 
return to work with her employer in about  4-6 weeks time.  
In February 2017,  the rehabilitation nurse  spoke  again to Miss W. The nurse reported that 
Miss W had improved slightly but had declined the GPs offer of medication and furthermore 
Ref: DRN95838003had decided against seeking counselling.  She had also had an argument over the telephone  
with her employer which  had set her back.  The nurse thought  that if Miss W were  to have an 
open and honest conversation with her employer about the workplace  issues,  she should  be 
able to consider  a return to work.
L&G decided that the evidence still didnt support  Miss Ws claim and I tend to agree. She 
was displaying  symptoms  of depression and so may have  been  suffering from an illness 
from the time she stopped working in November 2016. But the evidence suggests that the 
workplace dispute  was still a maintaining factor in her absence.  I dont find the evidence  
persuasive that she was so debilitated by her illness that, having sought appropriate 
treatment, it would have  been impossible for her to perform a suited occupation. There  is no 
medical expert opinion  to confirm she was incapacitated to this extent and, if she were, I 
would have expected to see stronger  evidence of the debilitating impact  of Miss Ws illness  
on her day-to-day life. On the basis of the available evidence, I think  it was reasonable for 
L&G to continue declining the claim. I think its offer nonetheless to pay eight weeks  of 
benefit on a goodwill basis  was fair.
Miss W subsequently started  on medication and engaged with counselling. She also 
underwent further  CBT. She returned  to work  on a gradual basis  in April 2017. However, she 
didnt manage  to increase her hours to full-time as planned, even after the period  for this to 
be achieved was extended. L&G tried to understand why this was the case but was unable 
to obtain an adequate explanation from either her counsellor or her GP. I am unsure why, 
between June 2017 and October 2017  (when she voluntarily reduced  her hours),  Miss W 
didnt return to full-time working.  The rehabilitation nurse considered  she was capable  of it. I 
dont think Miss W has shown she was medically prevented  from doing  so, given that her 
depressive symptoms had significantly diminished.
In summary,  I dont doubt that Miss W has been  through a very difficult time during which 
she has suffered stress and anxiety, and for a while has been ill with depression. I accept 
that for long periods she has felt unable  to do her job at all, or has felt able only to do it on a 
reduced basis. However, I dont think she has shown that she has been medically unable,  for 
a period of at least 13 weeks,  to perform any occupation to which she is suited. In view of 
this, I think it was reasonable for L&G to decline her claim. Furthermore, I am satisfied that it 
handled the claim in an appropriate way.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9583800