K822xComplaint
Mrs A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
Background 
In July 2018 Mrs A acquired new car and the battery failed when she collected  it. The battery 
failed again in September and a new one was fitted. The car was funded by a hire purchase 
agreement with VFS and after she complained it offered her £423.87 as a gesture of 
goodwill. In September  Mrs A asked that she be allowed  to reject the car. This was refused 
and Mrs A didnt think VFSs  response  was satisfactory and brought the matter to this 
service.
It was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended the compensation payment 
be increased to £525. He said the Consumer Rights Act 2015, gives a consumer the right to 
reject a car if its of unsatisfactory  quality within the first 30 days of delivery. After 30 days,  
the business has one chance  to repair the faulty car. If the repair  is unsuccessful, the car 
can be rejected.
He noted Mrs A had sought to reject the car after 30 days and the dealer had subsequently  
repaired it. As such he didnt think it needed  to do more. He believed the overall experience 
and expectation  wasnt as expected and he recognised Mrs As frustration that a fault 
happened so soon after acquisition.
Mrs A didnt agree and said her husband  had to take time off work to get the matter 
resolved. The dealer  had been slow to provide a new battery. She also said that VFS had 
misled her during a call. The adjudicator listened to the call and agreed the call handler had 
got things wrong.  However, he concluded  the compensation of £525  was fair. Mrs A didnt 
agree and the matter has been referred  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
Ref: DRN92162782involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is regrettable that the car was supplied with a faulty battery and I can see that Mrs A has 
suffered some inconvenience  due to that. As far as I am aware  there have been no other  
issues with the car and the replacement battery  has worked as it should. Mrs A has raised  
some issues  regarding  the actions of the dealer, but this complaint is against  VFS and not 
the dealer so I can only consider VFSs actions or failure to act. 
It was contacted in September and it explained  that rejection was disproportionate to the 
fault which had occurred and which had been  repaired. I consider that to have been a 
reasonable response. I gather it took three  weeks of testing before a new battery  was 
authorised and I can see that this caused Mrs A some frustration.
I also note that a call handler gave Mrs A incorrect information on her rights. That is 
regrettable, but I dont  believe  that had a material impact on the outcome. In short,  Mrs A 
suffered some inconvenience  and on balance I consider that the proposed compensation of 
£525 is more than reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mrs A £525  compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9216278