K820x#14This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004 in connection with a mortgage.  Mrs P says National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
the mortgage application form. This shows Mrs P was given two equally clear options  to 
take or refuse PPI and it appears she chose to take PPI. Mrs P also completed a 
separate application form requesting  PPI.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what she has said about her other 
means of meeting the repayments. But these points dont change  my decision. NatWest 
didnt advise Mrs P to take the policy so they didnt need to take into account Mrs Ps 
alternative means of making repayments.  Instead  it would have been  for Mrs P to decide 
whether or not to take PPI despite  her existing means. 
I also note that Mrs P has referred to having to take time off work  due to an illness.  It is for 
Mrs P to contact the insurers  in the first instance  to check if they would consider a 
retrospective claim.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs P paid on her PPI  and whether NatWest  
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest have told us that the commission for Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest have been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like theyre right  Mrs Ps commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think they needed to tell her about the commission  
 so I dont think  NatWest treated her unfairly.  This means  they dont need to pay Mrs P 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN98310862my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against  National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9831086