K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2003  when   
Mrs M applied for a credit card. Mrs M says Marks & Spencer  Financial  Services  Plc (M&S) 
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs M and M&S agree the policy was sold in-store.  M&S shouldve  made Mrs M aware she 
had a choice in taking out the PPI. 
Mrs M says she felt the policy was compulsory.  Looking  at the copy of the application form, it 
asks applicants to select a box to say if they want PPI and then sign separately from the 
credit card. The box has been  ticked on Mrs Ms form and shes  signed separately for the 
policy. Overall,  I think M&S made it clear that Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI  and 
she decided to take it.
Mrs M says she felt pressured to take the policy but she hasnt  expanded  on what made  her 
feel this way. I cant say what was discussed  during the interaction when the PPI was sold.  
And I think its possible any sales representative she spoke  to couldve said that it was a 
good idea to take the policy but that isnt the same as saying they must  have  it. So without 
stronger evidence of this I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this basis.  
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments about the wording saying M&S  strongly  recommended that 
applicants took the policy but this was a generic statement  and not M&S making a tailored 
recommendation for Mrs M. 
Mrs M says M&S advised her to take the PPI. M&S says this wasnt an advised sale.  From 
what I know about how M&S sold these policies at the time,  I dont  think  it recommended  the 
PPI to Mrs M. So it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But M&S did have to make  
sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Looking at everything Ive been given its possible the information  M&S gave Mrs M about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like Mrs M was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  Mrs M says she had sick pay and redundancy  benefits  from her employer. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out alongside the benefits,  meaning she could have used them to 
cover other essential costs. So the PPI would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong.
Mrs M has said the policy was a cost she couldnt  afford at the time,  but  I havent  seen  any 
substantial evidence that it was unaffordable.  And the policy  could be cancelled at any time.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN92621992Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But M&S 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  M&S didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mrs M feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint.  Ive given  a lot of thought to all the points shes raised but for the 
reasons explained above these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9262199