K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy by completing  an application  form for it. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £226.67  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £121.97  with the PPI costing  an additional £11.05 making  the total 
monthly repayment £133.02.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs C for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Cs monthly  loan repayment  for the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs C was employed  as an administration  assistant.  She has told us she was 
entitled to less than 3 months sick pay and was entitled to redundancy pay. Mrs C has said 
besides suffering  broken bones  in childhood she was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2002.
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Cs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mrs C about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN97127522Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN97127523these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The loan was applied  for through the post.  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs application form and 
on it I can see that there is a separate section  that deals with PPI. Within the section it gives 
to option to select yes or no to take PPI with a space  to sign to confirm the selection. I can 
Ref: DRN97127524on Mrs Cs application that PPI has been selected with a tick in the yes box and she has 
signed just below this.  
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement Mrs Cs signed to get the loan. I can see it set 
out the cost of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance with and without interest, 
separately. 
So I think Mrs C wouldve  understood  she had a choice in taking the PPI because she was 
given the choice to select or decline it on the loan application form and it was described as 
optional on the credit agreement. And I think Mrs C had PPI because she chose  to take it 
because she wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs C knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mrs C agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs C. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs C to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs C was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs C was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs C would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs C knew  that the single premium being  added 
to the loan was £226.67  and the monthly  cost was £11.05 each month  (as this information 
was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mrs C signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs C agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN97127525-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs C has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mrs C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs C says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs C had to weigh up in her own mind(s) the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs C thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mrs C was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mrs C would get back  in return  in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Cs expectations about what  
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN97127526The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs C knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs C be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs C would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs C was unable (through  disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mrs C decided to repay the loan early  and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs C made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs C would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN97127527That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs C would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs C 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than 
she would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 November  2020.
Ref: DRN97127528Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712752