K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance unfairly  charged him a fee for collecting his vehicle after hed opted  for a voluntary 
termination (VT) of the finance  agreement.  He wants the charge to be cancelled.
background
Mr C tells us he decided  to opt for a VT of his conditional sale agreement. He says he 
doesnt consider  hes liable  to pay anything more than 50% of the total price payable  under 
the agreement. As the £150 collection charge which BPF indicated  it would charge to collect 
the vehicle is in excess of this he doesnt think hes required to pay it. And he wants BPF to 
cancel the charge. He further complains  that BPF has passed the alleged  debt to collection 
agents. He says he considers that BPF is using aggressive tactics and the potential damage 
to his credit  record in order to force him to pay.
BPF told us that in February 2019 Mr C had notified it of his wish to VT the finance 
agreement. It said Mr C had indicated that BPF could collect  the vehicle or hed drop it off. 
But in the latter event hed expect his costs to be covered. BPF said theres no statutory right 
for a customer to be reimbursed for costs incurred  in returning a vehicle after VT. It said it 
made a commercial decision to apply  a charge for collection  and that it was entitled  to do so.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought  that BPF 
had dealt with the complaint fairly. He said it had given Mr C the option of either delivering the 
vehicle to one of its agents. Alternatively, it had offered to collect  the vehicle  but had notified Mr C 
a £150 collection  fee would apply.  He said that he wouldnt be asking BPF to do anything else.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that during this complaint Mr C has made a number of references to various statutory 
provisions along  with his interpretation  of how they apply to these  circumstances. I should  
explain that I dont  apply the law - directly - in the same way as a court  might  do. But I do 
take it into account. Relevant law here includes the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
Amongst other things this means its not for me to decide if this debt is legally  valid.  Im 
determining if BPF has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly. And in reaching  that decision I will 
take into account if I think the charge  was fairly  applied.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP). These can be found  in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant (my underlining):
 law and regulations;
Ref: DRN98734332 regulators  rules  guidance and standards; 
 codes  of practice; 
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time.
The basic  facts in this complaint arent in dispute.  They can be accurately summarised by 
saying that Mr C decided  to VT his finance  agreement in February 2019. BPF wrote to him 
and said he could return the vehicle to one of its agents. Or it could arrange for the vehicle to 
be collected. It indicated  that if Mr C chose the latter option there would be a charge  of £150. 
Mr C didnt agree to this and didnt sign the VT form. He told BPF that whilst hed be 
prepared to drop the vehicle off he wanted  his costs to be paid. He further informed it that if it 
didnt collect the vehicle hed cancel the tax and insurance by 15 March 2019.  BPFs agents 
collected the vehicle on 6 March 2019.
I dont think it makes  any difference  whether  or not Mr C signed  or returned the VT form which  
BPF had sent to him. Its clear from the conduct  of the parties  that Mr C intended to VT the 
agreement and BPF was accepting  of that fact. And for the reasons Ive already explained, in 
order to reach my decision Im not required to make  any direct  application  of the law. So I dont 
propose to comment in detail on the various  submissions which Mr C has made about the CCA.
I think our investigator touched on some of the more relevant factors  when he replied, on 18 
October 2019, to points  raised by Mr C following the first view.  In his response Mr C had 
maintained his (Mr C) interpretation of the CCA.  And that he didnt think  it fair he should  be 
expected to pay a fee to which he hadnt  agreed.  Our investigator commented that the 
vehicle belonged to BPF;  that it had been  in Mr Cs possession; and that it was Mr C who 
was the party ending the agreement.
Putting aside for one moment arguments about contractual  liabilities,  I think its fair and 
reasonable in those  circumstances to expect Mr C to accept the responsibility of returning 
BPFs property to it. And if he didnt wish to perform that task physically then in my opinion  
he ought reasonably to have expected  to incur the cost of collection.
But Mr C probably had a contractual obligation to pay. Ive seen a copy of the regulated 
credit agreement which contained the following (my underlining): 
Terms and conditions of your agreement  (continued)
 
Pay us (when  we demand)  all reasonable expenses, costs, legal or other expenses  we have 
to pay in connection with taking action  to recover any amounts you owe us, finding out the 
location of the vehicle,  or taking possession of the vehicle from you or any other person. 
(This includes any payment we make to remove any right which another  person may have 
relating to the vehicle).
This seems to me to cover the situation where  BPF had to arrange to retake  possession  of 
the vehicle from Mr C.
Ive seen some correspondence about this debt. And that includes letters  from BPF and its 
collection agents sent to Mr C. Where a business reasonably believes a debt is owed its 
entitled to take lawful  steps  to recover that debt. 
Ref: DRN98734333Ive seen no information which causes me to believe that BPF has acted unreasonably or 
aggressively in pursuance  of the sum it reasonably believes its owed. Nor have I seen 
details of what, if any, report its made  to any credit  reference agencies  about this matter.  
In summary,  Im satisfied  the collection charge was fairly applied. I dont find that BPF has 
behaved unreasonably in seeking repayment of the sum outstanding. And I shant be asking 
it to do anything else. Im aware  that Mr C is likely  to be disappointed with my decision but 
Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9873433