K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  that FXPRO UK Limited (FXPro) misrepresented asset  valuations  on 
its trading platform.  He said this made  his trading decisions difficult  and as a result  he 
incurred losses.
background 
Mr L had been  trading  currency and commodities through FXPros platform, MetaTrader 5 
(MT5) on an execution-only  basis.
In March 2018 Mr L complained that the spreads the platform  showed  on the screen were 
different from what he actually received on his trades. Mr L provided an analysis of his 
trading history from 5 February 2018  to 28 March 2018 and believed  he had lost around  
€4,200.
FXPro considered Mr Ls complaint and acknowledged that there was a mismatch  between 
the price shown and the candlestick on the MT5 platform. It said the reason for the 
mismatch was due to a numerical  rounding error with the MT5 terminal, which  it was 
investigating. FXPro  reviewed Mr Ls trades during  this period and identified  nine trades that 
it thought could have been  affected by the mismatch. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered him 
€843.30 for the losses he incurred on these trades.
Mr L didnt accept the offer and referred  his complaint to our service. He said he ought to be 
compensated for all of his losses during this time as the trades had been affected by the 
same issue.  He also said FXPro should compensate him for other direct and potential 
losses. This was because the losses on the trades he initially identified had led to several 
long-term positions being closed prematurely due to the triggering of stop losses  and margin  
calls. Mr L estimated these losses to be between €500,000 and €4,000,000.
Mr L added  to his complaint  that hed experienced further issues trading gold on Friday 
11 May 2018. Hed placed a buy trade  earlier in the day and when he attempted to close  it 
just before the market closed, it was rejected. On Monday 14 May 2018 Mr L opened extra 
trades to try and offset losses as a result of his position in gold. But this resulted in further  
losses, totalling around €900.  Mr L thought FXPro  was responsible  for these losses.
FXPro said Mr L had tried to close his gold positions  seconds before the market closed. It 
said this failed because  there wasnt any pricing  coming from its liquidity providers at the 
time. FXPro said that because Mr L was technically trading within  market  hours,  it offered to 
zero out his gold position as a gesture of goodwill. However, it said it wasnt  responsible  for 
his other  losses because it was his decision  to take this additional risk.
An investigator considered the complaint but he didnt recommend that FXPro  should do any 
more to put things  right.  He considered the redress offer from FXPro was reasonable in the 
circumstances. The investigator  accepted  that FXPro had acknowledged  a minor mismatch 
between the true market price and what the chart package  service  on the MT5 system was 
showing to him. But, the client  agreement Mr L agreed to when he signed up for his account 
says that FXPro couldnt guarantee  the platform was free of any errors or deficiencies.  And 
Mr L was solely responsible for his trading losses when  operating  an execution-only  
account and for monitoring  his trades.
Ref: DRN98459692In the investigators  opinion,  the price mismatch  was minimal and couldve also worked in 
Mr Ls favour. But overall, he didnt think it was reasonable for Mr L to base his trading 
decisions on the charts alone. This was because of the lag between the chart  prices  being 
updated and because it was based  on the last price rather  than the bid price. He also 
didnt think Mr L had provided evidence showing that the closure levels of any of his trades 
were incorrect. So, he didnt think there was any basis  for increasing the compensation.
The investigator also didnt think FXPro was responsible for the other losses Mr L had 
claimed in relation to the long-term positions  that were closed due to triggering  stop losses  
or margin calls. He considered FXPro had closed  these positions in line with its order  
execution policy. If Mr L wanted to avoid this, the investigator said he needed to provide 
increased funds or operate with wider stop loss levels. The investigator also thought FXPros 
offer to zero out Mr Ls gold position in May 2018 was reasonable as it couldnt be held 
responsible for Mr Ls decision to try and offset  his losses  the next working day.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators  findings. He said hed based his trading  strategy  on what  
he saw in the charts. And hed shown hed lost money because of FXPros mistakes. Mr L 
maintained the errors were not minimal.  He said his trades were highly leveraged and he 
had little margin, so any difference in the spread  shown in the charts had a bigger impact.  If 
there hadnt been a mistake then his positions  wouldnt have been  closed automatically by 
margin call and would be open  today with large profits of which he has been deprived. Mr L 
said hed needed  to take a loan to cover his studies. He also wanted  to know who was 
responsible for the errors in the MT5 platform,  if not FXPro. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint, for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The relevant  terms of the agreements Mr L agreed  to when he opened an account  with 
FXPro are as follows:
Client Agreement
4.3 We do not provide investment, financial,  legal, tax or regulatory advice nor do we provide 
any other form of recommendation. You understand that you shall make your own 
assessment of any transaction prior to entering into a trade or a bet, and shall not rely on 
any opinion, material or analysis provided by us or any of our affiliates, employees, or other 
related parties  as being advice or recommendation
7.3 The Software,  which may have been developed by a third party, is provided 'as is'. We 
will ensure,  but cannot guarantee, that the Software  supports data security protocols  
compatible with those used by FxPro.  We also cannot guarantee that the Software is free of 
any errors or deficiencies.
FXPro has acknowledged  that there was a slight inaccuracy with regard to the price  shown 
on the platform and the level of the chart. It explains that the mismatch occurs  when the 
digits taken by its price aggregator are greater than those taken by MT5. By way of an 
Ref: DRN98459693example, it said if the resulting price on its aggregator is 65.346, the price  on MT5 would 
show only 65.35. It said this could account  for the difference  shown in the chart.  
Furthermore, FXPro explains that the candlestick is built from the last price.
Taking the above into account, as well as the lag between the chart  prices  being updated, 
I think this explains the differences between the prices  Mr L saw in the charts and the actual 
market price he traded at. While  I appreciate Mr L says this caused him losses, I dont think 
FXPro is responsible for these losses. I say this because the charts Mr L was using were  a 
visual aid intended to be used for information only. And as per the above terms, FXPro didnt 
provide any guarantee that the platform was free of deficiencies. So, I think  Mr L ought  
reasonably to have  known  not to his base decisions solely on the charts.
I know Mr Ls trades were highly leveraged, so a minimal difference in price could mean a 
large loss to him overall.  But I havent seen enough evidence to say the difference  in price 
meant Mr L wouldve  made different decisions or that he wouldve avoided those losses. 
Ultimately, when he executed the trades, he wouldve  seen the true market value and what  
this represented  in terms of profit or loss. So, I think he wouldve known  what  the chart  
showed wasnt the price  he was getting. And although Mr L experienced losses because of 
the price mismatch, he also couldve benefitted  from it. The fact he experienced losses alone 
doesnt demonstrate a mistake on FXPros part.
FXPro offered Mr L compensation of €843.30  as a gesture  of goodwill. This is because it 
identified nine trades that it believed couldve been  affected by the price mismatch  and this 
was the total of the losses Mr L incurred on those trades.  I dont think  Mr L should receive 
any additional compensation  above  this sum because  I dont think FXPro was responsible  
for any of his losses.
losses on closed long-term  positions
Mr L complained that because  of his initial losses FXPro closed out some long-term 
positions and he feels he wouldve enjoyed  a substantial profit if these had remained open.  
The relevant  terms of the Order Execution Policy say:
8.4 MetaTrader 5: at Margin Level of less than 40% we have the discretion to begin  closing  
positions starting from the most  unprofitable one. At Margin Level of less than 30% we will 
automatically close positions at the current market price, starting with the position requiring 
the most  margin. If the account Margin Level is still below 30% the same  procedure is 
repeated for the next applicable position;  if the Margin  Level  continues  below 30% the server  
will close  the position with the largest loss. Positions will be closed until the Margin  Level  
becomes greater than 30%.
Mr Ls margin dropped  below the required level, so FXPro was entitled  to close  these  
positions as per the above terms. And as Mr L operated an execution-only account he was 
solely responsible  for the profits and losses and for monitoring his positions. He was also 
responsible for providing adequate margin and for changing stop losses  to support his 
positions. So, I dont  think I can hold FXPro responsible for these additional  losses  claimed 
by Mr L.
Ref: DRN98459694inability to close gold positions
Mr L complained that he was prevented  from closing  out his gold positions on Friday 11 May 
2018. He said this meant he made  a loss when he was eventually able to close the positions 
on Monday 14 May 2018. However,  he made additional trades that day to try and offset this 
loss, which  also closed  at a loss. He considers FXPro is responsible for all of these  losses  
as he wouldve avoided  them entirely  if hed been able to close his gold positions on 11 May 
2018.
FXPro has said according to the journal Mr L provided, he attempted  to close his gold 
position four times (CET):
22:59:44
22:59:46
22:59:48
22:59:49
FXPro says these attempts failed as there was no pricing coming from its liquidity providers 
for that instrument at that time. As this was seconds before the market closed, it thought it 
was possible that liquidity may have dried up. And without pricing, Mr Ls close  orders  were 
rejected automatically  by the system.
While FXPro operates its service until 22:00:00  GMT, section 10.5 of the Client Agreement 
says:
Likelihood of Execution: We rely on third-party LPs for prices and available volume of the
different financial instruments we offer. Therefore, the execution of Clients  orders  will
depend on whether there  are prices  and liquidity available at the time these orders  are
received
While it was made just inside operating hours,  I dont think  Mr L was given  any guarantee 
that his order  would be executed. And I think its understandable that no pricing was 
available given how little time was left before the market closed. So, I dont think FXPro  is 
responsible for this loss or any other  loss that Mr L considers flows from it. That said,  FXPro 
made an offer to zero out Mr Ls gold position  as a gesture of goodwill. I think thats fair in 
the circumstances. But I wont  be asking FXPro to do any more to cover the additional  
losses Mr L made the next working  day.
Ref: DRN98459695my final decision
Im aware that FXPRO UK Limited  has made an offer to pay Mr L €843.30 and to zero out 
his gold position associated with order number 9580615. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My decision  is that FXPRO  UK Limited  should pay Mr L €843.30 and zero out his gold 
position associated  with order number 9580615.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845969