K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained about the service Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited gave 
him when  he needed  to use its motor breakdown cover  under his policy.
background
On 22 August 2018, Mr O noticed his car made  a snapping noise and then was vibrating. He 
called out LVs recovery and breakdown service, which sent out a breakdown  recovery  agent 
from a company, which I shall C.
Following a test drive,  the recovery agent  didnt think there was anything wrong with his car. 
Mr O showed him how his engine was now lopsided.  But the recovery agent  continued to 
think nothing was wrong. 
Next day whilst driving over a speed  bump,  Mr O heard a scrape. His car continued to 
vibrate. Later his oil light came on. So he called out LVs recovery and breakdown service 
again. This time LV sent out a recovery agent from a company, which I shall call F.
This agent checked the car thoroughly and said it should never have  been  driven  so he 
recovered the car back to Mr Os house and a hire car was provided under the policy 
provisions. His car was then inspected by a garage. That garage said that the damage to Mr 
Os car had occurred before the first recovery agent  attended.  Mr Os car was a total loss 
due to the damage to the engine from engine mounts failing.
Mr O complained to LV. LV didnt think its first recovery  agent  from company C had done 
anything wrong. It thought  Mr O should  have got his car checked afterwards in any event. Mr 
O didnt agree, as he said he relied  on the expertise of that first recovery  agent  from 
company C. 
So Mr O brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that the first recovery 
agent from company  C failed to appreciate the seriousness of the engine  being lopsided and 
gave incorrect advice  to Mr Os detriment.  He was of the view Mr Os car should have been 
recovered back to a garage  on the first call out. So he thought  LV should pay Mr O the 
market value of his car in the sum of £1,172.18, which also took account of the salvage 
value, which  Mr O got when he got his car. Plus it included the repair  costs,  which  Mr O 
could have paid if the first recovery  breakdown  agent from company C had properly  
recovered his car at the time.
LV didnt agree so Mr Os complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
In its final response letter,  LV said in continuing to drive  his car after the first call out to, Mr O 
caused damage to the sump in going  over the speed bump. But thats not what  the 
Ref: DRN94216412engineering evidence says. It says the damage was done to engine  mounts  before Mr O first 
called out the recovery agent. 
Further Mr O is clear that he showed the recovery  agent the fact his engine was lopsided 
and this is confirmed  by that first recovery agents report. 
So the pertinent and central  issue to this complaint is simply was it reasonable for the first 
recovery agent, having noticed  the lopsided engine to not recover Mr Os car and tell him to 
go to a garage for further investigation. I dont think it was. This recovery agents report  
clearly said there were no faults despite the lopsided engine.  It did mention the cause of 
that could possibly be the suspension but crucially  he didnt advise Mr O to not drive his car 
and to go to a garage to see why his engine was lopsided  and nor indeed did he recover his 
car back to Mr Os house or garage. I consider that having a recovery agent tell Mr O his car 
had no faults meant  thats what the recovery agent  thought. Given the expertise  of the 
recovery as against  that of Mr O, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr O to rely on that 
alleged expertise. 
By failing to say or advise Mr O to take his car to garage, Mr O whilst driving  the very next 
day went over the speed bump, which essentially ensured his engine  was then damaged 
beyond repair. 
Therefore, I consider  LV is responsible  for this loss. Mr O had his car salvaged  and received 
£350 for it. I agree with the investigator that a reasonable pre-incident value of his car was 
£1,778 bearing  in mind the values  in the trade guides. Mr O obtained estimates  of the cost of 
the repair of his car if he had been advised to take to it to a repairer, and that amounted  to 
£255.82. Consequently, I consider LV now needs  to pay Mr O the sum of £1,172.18, adding  
interest at our usual  rate.
LV did however extend the duration  of the hire car entitlement to Mr O under his policy,  
which I also consider  is reasonable. But as this matter remained unresolved  for Mr O, he had 
to borrow money from his partners father to buy another car. He said he borrowed  £1,000. 
All in all Mr O was put to inconvenience, trouble and upset in arranging  his car to be 
salvaged. And indeed buying another  car, So I also agreed with the investigator 
compensation is payable by LV, I consider the sum of £200 to be reasonable to also take 
into account the various new wheels and seats  Mr O had furnished his car with which  are 
now lost.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr O the sum of £1,172.18 for the market value of his car.
Add interest at 8% simple per year from the date Mr O first called out LVs recovery  
agent to the date it pays him.*
Pay Mr O £200 compensation.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr O how much its taken 
Ref: DRN94216413off. It should  also give him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9421641