K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs W took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage in 2003. She paid a monthly  amount  for the 
policy. 
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added or taken out 
as the consumer wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  called Mortgage 
Repayment Cover - which  covered accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - 
not the life or critical illness cover. If Mrs W made a successful claim, the policy 
wouldve paid out the full cost of the monthly  repayments for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt have  much of the paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising considering  
the sale took place over 15 years ago. So I need  to decide what I think is more  likely to have 
happened.
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have  been  asked for 
their consent  to the cover.
Mrs W said that she were  told her mortgage  wouldnt be agreed unless she took out the 
cover. And she has said that she felt pressured  into taking it out by the advisor. Pressure  
can be very subjective  what  one person  believes is pressure may not be considered  in that 
way by another. And encouraging you to take out the policy isnt the same as saying it must 
be taken. Ive thought very carefully  about  this but without  more persuasive evidence  I cant 
fairly uphold  the complaint on this basis.
So with the limited information  I have available to me, I think its more likely that
Mrs W knew the policy was optional and she agreed  to buy it, knowing  she could refuse if 
she didnt want it, even if she doesnt remember that now many years  later.  
Ref: DRN95089032Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
The PPI policy couldve covered Mrs Ws repayments for up to 24 months  per claim if she 
became too ill to work, or if she became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
sick pay she had and for longer than her sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
any redundancy payment she may have  got if she lost her job. And as there  couldve been  
serious consequences of not keeping up repayments on a debt secured against her home,  if 
Mrs W couldnt work or lost her job then the PPI meant her monthly mortgage payments 
wouldve been met. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to her. And I understand it 
was useful to her as Halifax has told us she made two successful claims on the PPI policy. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mrs W back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508903