K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them the MPPI.
Mr and Mrs H had a joint mortgage but the policy only covered Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs Hs signed mortgage  application  form shows that MPPI was requested.      
Mr and Mrs H then signed a separate MPPI  application form to confirm  that they wanted  
cover for Mr H only. So overall I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have 
to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out.  
Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, Mr H appears  to have been the main wage earner and while  he was 
self-employed, I dont  think that he wouldve found  it more difficult to make a claim on the 
unemployment benefit. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the cover.  So I 
think the MPPI wouldve proved useful if something went wrong and Mr H needed to 
make a claim  especially as it was protecting the payments to Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage. It also looks like the MPPI  was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the MPPI wouldve  put them off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
All of this means Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to             
Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the MPPI  premium)  - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN95865372The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586537