The complaint
Mr M junior  (Mr MJ) complains as executor of his late brothers, Mr M seniors,  
estate (Mr MS). He complains that the estate has had to pay inheritance tax on 
the death benefits of Mr Ms section  32 Buy Out policy,  despite  Legal & General 
Assurance Society Limiteds  (Legal  and General) paperwork  saying that 
inheritance tax would  not be payable.  He also says that Legal  and General  initially 
agreed to meet the extra inheritance tax costs. But is now not agreeing to do so.
What happened
On 14 February  2018, Legal  and General  wrote  to Mr MS saying that it was changing the 
terms and conditions of his Buy Out Plan with effect from 1 July 2018. It said,  The main  
change means that when  you die your policy benefits are unlikely to attract  inheritance  
tax. Mr MS had already  passed away by then.
Mr MS passed away  in early February  2018, in his late 60s. Mr MS had a Buy Out policy  
with the Legal and General.  He was taking retirement  benefits from this policy at the time 
of his death.
Mr MJ was the executor and sole beneficiary  of his brothers estate. Mr MJ
instructed a firm of solicitors to assist him, as executor, to administer the estate.
Mr MJs solicitors  wrote to Legal  and General in February 2018, to advise them  of Mr Ms 
death. The solicitors  asked whether there  was a binding nomination form in place in respect of 
his pension.
Legal & General initially said that there was no nomination form in place. It later said 
there was a nomination made  in 2015,  and Mr MS had nominated  his brother, Mr MJ, to 
receive 100% of his benefits under the policy.
Under HMRC rules,  the general position is that if the lump  sum death benefit in trust is paid 
at the discretion of the pension scheme trustees, even where there  is a nomination  form,
no inheritance  tax will be due. But, where  payment is not discretionary, inheritance tax is 
payable.
In May 2018, Legal  & General emailed the estates solicitors to advise  them that the 
nomination was binding. But Legal and General  said, the payment of benefits  would  still be 
outside the estate for inheritance tax purposes. This led to a series of phone calls and 
emails between Legal and General, Mr MJ and the estates solicitors, trying  to ascertain 
whether the nomination was binding  or not, and therefore whether the payment of benefits 
would be treated as part of the estate  and be liable to inheritance  tax.
The nomination form Mr MS completed in 2015,  said:
If you die after you have started  taking  Flexi-Access Drawdown, any remaining value of your 
pension pot can be paid to your nominated beneficiaries.  If you make a nomination,  we will 
pay the lump sum at our discretion to the person(s)  you have nominated and/or your estate.
For details of how your remaining pension  pot can be paid and the tax position please  refer 
to our Taking Money from my Pension  [sic] guide.
If you die before  age 75 the value of any remaining money in your pension pot can be paid 
to any beneficiaries tax free either as a single lump sum or a continuation of Flexi-Access 
Ref: DRN9712108Drawdown income payments. However  the exact options available  will be determined by the 
terms of your scheme or policy..
In Section  9 of the Taking Money from my Pension  guide it said this:
What happens to my remaining pension pot if I die?
If you die before  age 75: the value of any remaining money in your pension pot can be taken 
by your chosen beneficiary, in most cases  as a tax-free single cash lump sum or through  
flexi-access drawdown. However  the exact options  available will be determined  by terms of 
your scheme or policy.
On page 7, section 3 of the Buy Out Plan booklet, it said where  benefits were  payable on 
death, after the benefits had come  into payment:
This will depend  on what  options you chose at retirement. However, if you die on or after 
your 75th birthday and have any funds remaining in your retirement benefit account, any 
lump sum payable from those funds  will be subject to tax.
On page 9, section 2 it said under Lump Sum Benefit:
If you die before age 75 after having been paid benefits in accordance  with section 2 of 
Retirement Benefits  on page 5, any lump sum benefit from any remaining retirement 
benefit account paid to anyone  else is not normally liable to inheritance tax or income tax 
under present legislation. However,  if you are aged  75 or older when you die, that lump 
sum will be taxable as income and tax will be deducted at the appropriate rate based on 
PAYE coding of the relevant individual as notified  by HMRC.
Legal & General clarified its position  at the end of May 2018.  It said that the policy booklet and 
the nomination  form were  wrongly worded. It said that the actual terms and conditions  of the 
policy stated that the nomination would  be binding on the trustees.
Legal & General made payment of the full value of the policy  to Mr MJ at the end of May
2018. Tax was payable  on this.
Mr MJ complained to Legal  & General about the information hed been given about the tax 
position. Legal & General accepted it had made  an error and originally offered to take back  
the policy proceeds and rework the payment so that inheritance tax would not be payable.  
Mr M said he was unable  to accept this offer at the time as he had already made several 
disbursements from the policy  proceeds to cover  estate costs.
Ref: DRN9712108Legal & General apologised  for the incorrect information and made an ex-gratia payment of
£350 to compensate Mr MJ for the trouble and upset. It also offered to pay the additional 
solicitors costs incurred as a result  of dealing with this error.
Mr MJ considered Legal and Generals  offer insufficient to put matters  right. He said that 
Legal & General  had previously promised to meet the inheritance tax bill. Legal & General 
said it had offered to repay any additional  costs incurred because of its error, but it had not 
agreed to pay the tax due.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld. She found 
that whilst Legal  & General was undoubtedly at fault for providing  incorrect information to  
Mr MJ, it was not liable to repay  the inheritance tax bill as this had not become payable due 
to its error. She said this had always been  the legal position. She recommended that Mr MJ 
accept Legal & Generals  offer of repaying the costs that had been incurred as a result of 
their wrong information, plus the payment made  for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view;  he felt that he had been  promised a full 
repayment of the inheritance tax amount and that Legal & General  should honour this 
promise. As agreement couldnt be reached  he asked for the case be referred to an 
ombudsman.
I asked Legal & General whether it was still prepared to rework things, so that inheritance 
tax would  not be payable.  It said irrespective of whether the policy proceeds were repaid, it 
was unable to rework things to avoid  inheritance  tax being payable.  It seems  some while 
after making this offer, and Mr MJ declining it, Legal & General established this option wasnt  
in fact available  to it.
January 2020  provisional decision (first provisional  decision)
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint in January 2020. I said I was minded 
to uphold this complaint.
Mr MJ accepted my provisional decision.  Legal  and General didnt 
Legal and General said, in summary:
 the evidence  did not support the conclusion that Mr MS would  have taken steps to 
avoid inheritance tax on the death  benefits payable from his pension policy;
 the transfer of a half share of Mr Ms house to Mr MJ probably  wasnt  to attempt to 
mitigate Mr Ms inheritance tax liability. There was no evidence  to show  why Mr MS 
signed over half of his house and no evidence  of his motivation. More  often than not, 
when people sign over interests in their home  it is for reasons unrelated  to 
inheritance tax  for instance  in order to pay care fees or to protect assets from 
creditors;
 as Mr MS continued  to live in the house, the transfer would not have had any effect 
on Mr Ms inheritance  tax liabilities. Section 102 of the Finance Act 1986 prevents 
inheritance tax being reduced, if property  is given  away  but the transferor continues 
to receive a benefit  from the property (such  as continuing to live in it). If inheritance 
tax was important enough for Mr MS to be the reason that he wanted to sign over
Ref: DRN9712108half his home to Mr MJ, it would be surprising that he didnt realise (whether  through 
his own enquiries  or from advice given to him by any professionals involved in the 
transfer), that he wouldnt mitigate  his inheritance tax liability  by effecting such  a 
transfer if he still lived in the property;
 it appears substantially more likely that, had the policy documentation referred to the 
possibility that inheritance tax wouldve been  payable on the death  benefits from
Mr Ms pension  policy,  Mr MS wouldnt have made any changes  to his affairs and 
his estate would be liable  for the same tax as is in fact payable  now. Legal and 
General said therefore it agreed with the adjudicators initial  conclusions  in this 
matter.
 whilst  it was very much regretted  that Mr MS was provided with inaccurate 
information in relation  to inheritance tax, it did not consider  that he would have  
avoided the liability  to pay that tax had different information been  provided.
Follow up enquiries 
Following up on Legal and Generals response  to my first provisional decision,  I asked Mr MJ, 
in his own words, if he knew, why his brother decided to transfer half of his house to him.
Mr MJ responded and said that his brother took advice from his solicitor  and from an associate 
who worked for the Citizens Advice  Bureau. He said his brother was aware that if his health 
deteriorated, he may have  to go into care and pay care home  fees. By transferring part of his 
house, he thought Mr MJ would at least get half of his house. His financial  adviser also 
explained to him about gifting and the seven year rule and what  happened to his pension tax 
wise at aged  75. He said Mr MS also changed his will and gave Mr MJ power  of attorney over 
his health and financial affairs. He said Mr MS thought he had done  everything possible.
Mr MJ also provided me with a copy of a pensions suitability report  prepared by his brothers 
financial adviser in June 2016.  The report recommended Mr MS combine his two pensions  
(his L&G one and another)  and open  a flexible drawdown account after taking the maximum 
permitted tax free cash from the other  pension. The report noted  that Mr MS had used up all 
his savings and the monies  already withdrawn from his L&G pension to meet  the costs of his 
divorce. Further, it recorded  that Mr Ms monthly income was sufficient to meet his outgoings. 
It noted that one of his priorities and objectives was to ensure tax efficiency at all times. 
When talking about the advantages of flexible drawdown, the report  noted that if he died prior 
to age 75, the remainder of his pension was tax free to beneficiaries.
I made  enquiries with Mr Ms former  adviser.  He told me that he was not provided with any 
paperwork from L&G that confirmed there was any tax liability, pre or post 75. He said had 
L&G provided documentation  pointing out there would be a tax liability on death before age 
75, and he had been shown it, he would have been  duty obliged  to highlight that to [Mr MS] 
and advise against it. The adviser said he would have recommended he transfer to the 
flexible drawdown  scheme he was recommending,  because it provided a discretionary trust 
that provided tax-free benefits on death  before  aged 75.
The adviser said he could  not say for sure what Mr MS wouldve done had he known the 
payment to his nominated  beneficiary  under the L&G scheme would be subject  to tax if he 
died before age 75; it was not discussed. He said Mr MS was emotionally exhausted, could 
not face the complexity of a potential transfer  and was financially pressed. But, he said he 
would like to think he wouldve acted  differently.
Mr MJ said his brother  was emotionally distressed at the time because of the divorce. He said 
the court had not been interested  in his other pension, only the L&G one. He said it was 
because of the court ruling that he did not consolidate the pensions,  because the court  gave
Ref: DRN9712108K821x#15him a short time frame  to deal with the pensions sharing order. He said that when he took 
advice in 2016, instead of accepting the financial advisers recommendation to consolidate 
both pensions into a flexible drawdown  arrangement, his brother and he both read the 
report. Noting  that he could change his L&G pension  into flexible drawdown, with no adviser 
fee being payable, Mr MS decided to stay with L&G because  it also offered flexible 
drawdown. Mr MJ said it appeared to them that the flexible drawdown offerings were the 
same. But, he said, if he and his brother, or the financial adviser, had been given anything 
saying that tax was payable on death  before age 75 in the L&G scheme, then his brother 
would definitely have  changed company.
June 2020 provisional  decision  (second provisional  decision)
After receiving these further responses, I issued  a second provisional decision in June 2020.  
I said I was still minded to uphold  this complaint, but having taken on board the additional 
information received,  some of my reasons for reaching that decision were different.  I invited 
Legal and General and Mr MJ to provide me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision.
Mr MJ accepted my findings. 
After providing Legal and General with the additional paperwork received from Mr MS 
former adviser and his brother, Mr MJ, Legal  and General said it was not providing  any 
further information for me to consider.
This complaint now comes back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As theres  no new information been  provided  since I issued my second provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from what I said in that provisional decision. I am 
therefore upholding this complaint and set out my reasons for doing so below.  
nomination form 2015
Mr MS signed a nomination form that clearly  told him that his nominated beneficiary would 
receive any money left in his retirement account,  on death, tax-free. Ive looked at the policy  
booklet and the Taking  Money  From  My Pension guide and I think these  documents  
wouldve also misled Mr MS into believing that if he died before he was 75, no inheritance 
tax would  be payable on the remainder  of his pension.
Legal and General has accepted that it miscommunicated the tax position. So, as Legal & 
General has clearly done something wrong, I must go on to consider whether as a result 
of that error Mr MS estate, and Mr MJ as the sole beneficiary, have  lost out.
I cant  know  what  Mr MS wouldve done  had he been given clearer  information  about the 
tax position,  sadly  hes not here to ask. As some  of the evidence  is either incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to make  a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  
based on what is available.
Ref: DRN97121087At the time of taking benefits from his policy and making the nomination in 2015, Mr MS took 
advice from a financial adviser. I thought it possible that he couldve  discussed the tax 
position with his adviser at that time.  Mr MS also made a will in 2014, leaving everything  to 
Mr MJ.
Mr MS financial  adviser was contacted by Mr MJ after Mr MS death and he made 
representations to Legal  and General about  inheritance tax not being payable on Mr MS 
pension benefits.  This suggested to me that the adviser (and therefore probably Mr MS as 
he paid the adviser  to advise him) believed that tax would not be payable  on the pension if 
Mr MS died before he was 75.
We contacted Mr Ms former adviser to see if he was able to provide any further 
information about what might have been  in Mr Ms mind at the time he signed the 
nomination form. The adviser confirmed that he didnt have any notes relating to 
Mr Ms inheritance tax planning, but events  were fairly clear in his mind as hed 
spent a fair amount of time with Mr MS. He said Mr MS was clear he wanted to 
leave everything  to his brother, Mr MJ.
Mr Ms adviser said his client had been through a divorce and had asked the adviser  to 
assist with a pension sharing order and completion of the Legal and General 
nomination form.
Mr Ms adviser noted that Mr MS was a wheelchair user, following  an accident. He also 
had a heart condition and diabetes. Aside from his physical health issues, Mr MS adviser 
reported that Mr MS divorce had taken an emotional and financial toll on him leaving him 
only with his home (valued at £300,000) and the remainder of his Legal and General 
pension. He had used all his savings and his tax-free pension lump  sum from his L&G 
pension and drawdown to clear the debts arising from his divorce  settlement. He also had 
small enhanced  annuity.
signing over the house
During his lifetime, Mr MS signed  half of his house  over to Mr MJ. In my first provisional 
decision, I concluded that Mr MS had appeared to take action to mitigate his 
inheritance tax liability  by doing this. I therefore felt it likely that he wouldve done  the 
same with his other main asset, his pension, if he had cause to believe it was 
necessary to avoid  inheritance tax becoming  payable.
Following Legal  and Generals response  to my first provisional decision,  I asked Mr MJ if 
he was able to comment on what was in his brothers  mind at the time he transferred  half of 
the house into his name.  Based on what Mr MJs said,  I accepted that Legal and General 
was probably right about Mr MJs primary motivation for the transfer. It seems Mr MS 
wanted to ensure that the value of his estate wasnt fully eroded by care home fees.  
However, as I identified in my provisional decision, underlying all of this, its clear, that it 
was important to Mr MS to leave his brother with as much of a legacy as he could. My view 
didnt change about that.
Ref: DRN97121088incorrect information
Legal and Generals position is that if the policy documentation had correctly  referred  to the 
fact that inheritance tax was payable  on death benefits, Mr MS wouldnt have made any 
changes to his affairs and his estate  wouldve been liable to the same tax as payable now. 
In other  words, he would  have just accepted that was how it was.
This of course presupposes that Mr MS was given correct information upon which he 
could take advice and decide what to do in relation to his pension. Legal and General 
accepts he was not given correct information.
financial adviser input
Its clear now that Mr Ms financial adviser  assisted him with his pensions  both in 2015, 
when he signed  the nomination form and again in June 2016  when he was considering 
switching his pensions.  It seems, on both occasions  Mr MS was told generally about 
the implications tax wise of flexible drawdown  if he died before he was 75. 
It also seems to me that both brothers read and considered  the suitability report  written by 
the adviser in June  2016, recommending flexible drawdown, albeit it recommended 
switching to a different provider. I think what Mr MJs said about  what  was in their minds  at 
the time can reasonably be relied  upon,  given the fair way in which he has presented  his 
recount of events from the time. Based on what hes said,  I think it likely that they both 
reasonably believed, based  on what theyd  seen, that inheritance tax wouldnt have been 
payable in the L&G scheme, if Mr MS died before 75.
would Mr MS have acted  differently?
Mr MJ said Mr MS wouldve definitely changed  company, had he known the true position  
regarding the L&G schemes tax position. Mr Ms financial adviser fairly said he couldnt  
know for sure what Mr MS wouldve done  in 2016,  had the correct position  been known, 
because it wasnt discussed. But, I dont have to be sure about  what wouldve happened. 
Instead, I must decide what more likely wouldve happened, taking everything into 
account.
In reaching my conclusion, I have taken into account  that Mr MS was in his early 60s at 
the time he was considering his pension  options.  He was in what  could be described as 
poor physical health  and already had an enhanced  annuity, which  is indicative of reduced  
life expectancy. Given the nature  of his health conditions,  these  were  not going  to improve.  
It seems  he had been through a difficult time emotionally, which  had taken its toll on him.
Mr MS had taken advice  and incurred expense during his lifetime to set his affairs straight, 
in his brothers  words to do everything possible. He did so, it seems,  having been  through  
a difficult divorce financially and emotionally, when  money was tight,  and his savings had 
been used up. I think his actions speak for themselves.  He paid to transfer half of his house 
to his brother, he paid for advice from a solicitor, he took advice from a financial adviser, he 
paid to write a new will and he paid to put powers of attorney in place. So, I think  it unlikely 
that the financial cost of having to pay out to resolve the position as regards his pension  
inheritance tax arrangements, wouldve deterred him, if he knew  this would benefit his 
brother as the sole beneficiary of his estate.  
Ref: DRN97121089Ive taken into account that it wouldve cost Mr MS more to transfer  to the new provider. But 
I think he wouldve considered the fees worth it, had he been aware that the two drawdown  
arrangements were not the same; there was a material difference in the tax treatment in the 
L&G scheme,  if he died before 75. I say this considering the risks and benefits in his 
circumstances, given  his health conditions. I think when he reached his decision about  
remaining with the L&G scheme, likely he placed reliance on what  he had been  told by L&G 
in the various  documents and what his financial adviser had more generally told him about 
tax treatment in flexible  drawdown.
After considering all the information, I am left with the view,  that this complaint  should be 
upheld. I think its clear  from what Mr MJ and the financial adviser have said, that prior to 
his death, Mr MS took a number of steps, and obtained advice to ensure that his affairs  
were in order should his health deteriorate.  And to give effect to his wishes  to leave 
everything to his brother  in a tax efficient way.
I think  probably had Mr MS known the true position  before his death, he wouldve taken 
steps to ensure  that his pension fell outside of his estate for inheritance tax purposes  and 
no inheritance  tax was payable in respect of it. I think  this wouldve been achievable one 
way or another. After  all thats what  Legal and General was trying  to organise before it 
knew Mr MS had passed away. And if it wasnt possible to achieve this via the L&G 
scheme, I think Mr MS wouldve taken steps  to achieve  this outcome another  way, 
probably by transferring to the scheme  recommended by the adviser, if necessary. 
So, I think that Mr Ms estate has lost out because of the wrong information that Legal 
and General provided. Legal and General should  therefore pay Mr Ms estate fair 
compensation to put things right.
fair compensation
This service looks to put a consumer (or their estate) back in the position that they 
wouldve been in but for the error  or omission. Had Mr MS been aware that his Legal  and 
General pension would form part of his estate,  as Ive said above, I think  he wouldve 
taken steps to avoid  this being  the case.
In the circumstances  therefore, Legal and General should pay Mr Ms estate, on top 
of the £350 already paid for the trouble and upset caused, the following redress:
1. Pay any inheritance tax liability that becomes  due as a result of Mr Ms Legal and 
General pension  being treated as being part of his estate  upon death, upon  
receipt of evidence  of liability from the executor or solicitors acting as executors.
2. Refund Mr Ms estate any professional fees directly and reasonably incurred 
trying to establish whether Mr Ms Legal  and General pension formed  part of his 
estate on death and clarifying  any tax liability due and payable.
3. Legal and General should also pay Mr Ms estate  interest at 8% simple  on any 
inheritance tax payment made to HMRC arising  directly from his Legal  and 
General pension forming part of his estate on death,  as per 1 above. Mr MJ 
should inform  Legal and General of any payment made to HMRC in respect of 
1 above on acceptance of my final decision  if payment has already been 
made to HMRC. Alternatively, he should  notify  Legal and General within  
7 days of the payment  being made, if paid after my final decision. Providing 
notice is given of the payment as required above, interest is payable  from the 
Ref: DRN971210810date the payment was made  to HMRC to the date the interest is paid back to 
his estate.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal and General to take off tax from this 
interest. Legal and General must give Mr Ms executor a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint  and order  Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to pay fair compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr MJ to accept or 
reject my decision  as executor on behalf  of the estate of Mr MS before 2020.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712108