K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage) has not proven to be of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs G took receipt of a used car in February 2017. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage. At the point the car was supplied it had already 
completed about 33,000 miles and was about  eight years old.
In November 2018 the engine failed. The garage  confirmed there was valve damage as a 
result of the crank and crank shaft  jumping.  They said that the car would  need  a new engine.
Mrs G complained to Advantage. She said the car should not have suffered such  a 
catastrophic failure so soon after shed taken  receipt  of it. 
Advantage explained that they were only responsible for the quality of the car at the point of 
supply. They didnt  think there was evidence that the car was faulty at that point and they 
rejected Mrs Gs complaint.
So Mrs G referred  the complaint to our service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion.  He 
explained that, as Mrs G had had the car for about  18 months when it failed and as shed 
completed more than average  mileage,  he didnt  think  it would be reasonable to suggest  the 
fault the engine had now experienced  was there  from the beginning. 
The car was subsequently  repossessed by Advantage and has been sold. Advantage asked 
Mrs G to pay the balance  of the account after the sale proceeds had been credited but 
Mrs G was still unhappy. She didnt agree with the adjudicators view and she therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs G so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs G acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN99989232I note that Mrs G made a complaint to Advantage about an oil warning  light illuminating on 
the car in the first few weeks  of ownership  and about a brake problem.  Advantage provided  
their final response on these issues in October 2017. The Financial Ombudsman Service  
isnt free to consider every  complaint  that is brought to us. Amongst other  tests  the customer 
has six months from the date he or she receives  the business  final response letter to refer 
their complaint to us. Im persuaded that more than six months has past without referral, with 
regard to Mrs Gs October 2017 complaint. So Ive not reopened this earlier  complaint  as the 
rules dont allow me to consider that. 
Instead, I have reviewed Mrs Gs complaint about the engine failure.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs G. The car 
here was around  eight  years old and had travelled about 33,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Advantage  to put this right. 
But Advantages responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Advantage are right to suggest that legislation would encourage us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that wed usually look to the consumer to prove this was the case.  
But Ive not been provided with enough  evidence  that the fault with the engine was there or 
was developing  when  the car was supplied to Mrs G; such as a garage report or 
independent experts view on the matter.
The cars now been sold so its not possible to obtain that information and in the absence of 
it I think that its most likely the fault occurred or developed at some point after sale.  I say 
that because Mrs G has covered some  distance in the vehicle since  she took receipt  of it 
and I would have  expected to have seen more reports  of problems before this if the engine 
failure was developing during the relevant period.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to suggest  Advantage take any further 
action.
Ref: DRN99989233my final decision
 
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9998923