K821x#15Complaint
Ms S complains  that the car she acquired through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) wasnt  of satisfactory quality. She wants to be 
compensated for the issues she has experienced over the time she has had the car.
Background
Ms S entered into a HPA with TFS in August  2015  to acquire a used car. She says that she 
raised issues with TFS and the dealership throughout  the time she has had the car but her 
concerns were ignored. The issues she has raised  include:
1.being charged for a paint protection product she had said she didnt need;
2.problem with the air conditioning meaning  that she and her family were breathing 
potentially harmful powder for months;
3.issue with the charger and the brakes;
4.issue with the engine when going downhill;
5.colour of the bumper;
6.problems getting a service history; and
7.being asked  to make extra payments on the car service plan even though it had been 
fully paid.
Ms S says the issues with her car and dealing with TFS and the dealership  have caused her 
stress and put pressure  on her health.
TFS says that Ms S contacted them in August 2016 to discuss  making  lump  sum payments 
and that no issues  regarding the car or the bumper were raised. They  say she then 
contacted them again in May 2017  about  the inclusion  of the paint protection in her HPA and 
that this issue was dealt with by the dealership offering to refund the amount paid. They say 
that Ms S didnt raise any issues with them about the quality of the car. They agreed to cover  
the cost of an independent  inspection of the car.
The independent inspection said that when the car was in manual  mode,  in second gear and 
on a downward  gradient the revolutions  per minute  did raise slightly. It said that this issue 
wasnt noted when  the car was in automatic mode. It said the issue identified should  be 
investigated further and that it was considered that the issue  was present  or developing 
when Ms S acquired the car.
Our investigator noted that certain aspects of Ms S complaint  had already been  dealt with 
by another ombudsman service and so these  couldnt be considered further. She didnt  
uphold Ms S complaint in regard to the issue with the air conditioning (as this had been 
repaired) or the bumper  discoloration.  But she thought the evidence provided showed  there  
was a fault with the car when it was driven in manual mode. She noted that Ms S had said 
the issue was also present  in automatic mode  but said she needed more evidence  to show  
this. 
Our investigator said that she had been  told the issue was a characteristic of the car and the 
noise is not a defect or fault and doesnt interfere with the operation of the car. She didnt  
think that a repair would  be a suitable remedy. Instead, she thought a price  reduction was 
the most  suitable  redress. She recommended that Ms S benefit form a reduction  of £250. 
As Ms S had repaid  the agreement, she said that TFS should refund Ms S this amount.
Ref: DRN97043322Ms S didnt accept our investigators  view.  She said she wasnt given the truth about the 
bumper when she acquired the car as she wasnt told the car had been in an accident.  She 
said that the issue with the car was present  in automatic mode  as well as manual mode and 
she sent us a video which she says supports this. Ms S wasnt  happy with the suggested  
refund, noting  that the time her complaint had been  ongoing. 
TFS said that Ms S didnt raise the issue until more than two years after acquisition and had 
she raised this sooner  it may have  been able to address  this under warranty. It also noted 
that Ms S chose to make the balloon payment at the end of the HPA so she could keep the 
car which she wouldnt have done  had she lost faith in it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has raised a number of concerns regarding the HPA she entered  into with TFS and the 
quality of the car acquired through it. However,  as has been  explained,  some  of these issues 
have already been dealt  with by the Motor Ombudsman and so I will not be considering  
these further. The issues covered by the Motor  Ombudsman  include  the service  plan, the 
charge for road tax and the paint protection, service  history paperwork and service plan and 
the action taken in regard  to the air conditioning.
This complaint is against TFS and so I can only consider aspects of the complaint for which  
it has responsibility. Therefore I wont be considering  the service  provided by the dealership.  
However as Ms S acquired  the car under  a HPA, TFS can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The Consumer Rights  Act 2015, (CRA 2015) sets 
out what is considered  when  assessing satisfactory  quality.  In the event of a breach of 
contract, the CRA 2015 sets out possible  remedies. I can also consider the service Ms S 
received from TFS through  this process.
Given the above, I have considered in this decision  the issues  Ms S has raised  about  the car 
over revving when going downhill, the bumper, and the issues  she mentioned  regarding  the 
charger and the brakes.
In regard to the issues  mentioned about  the charger and the brakes, Ms S says these 
occurred in 2016. I dont have any further  information about these issues  but I note that the 
car passed an MOT in June 2016 and had there been issues  with the brakes at that time, I 
would have expected this to have been  noted.  Ms S acquired a used car and so some  wear 
and tear would  have  been expected. Without further  evidence of these issues,  I am unable 
to uphold this part of Ms S complaint.
Ms S says that she raised the issue of the bumper colour at the outset and was told there 
was a difference on her model of car between  the bumper and body. Ms S believes the car 
was damaged and that this wasnt reported in the cars history.  While I note the concerns 
Ms S has raised, I dont have anything to suggest that the car was mis-sold to Ms S in 
regard to the issue with the bumper. I appreciate her comments  about raising the colour  
difference at the point of acquisition but Ms S did accept that car at this point. I have nothing 
to suggest that there is anything wrong with the bumper and so while I understand that this 
has upset Ms S, I am unable to say that I have sufficient evidence  that the car was 
misrepresented to her due to this issue. 
Ref: DRN97043323The key outstanding point relates  to Ms S concerns about how the car drives when going 
downhill. She says she has raised this issue  with the dealer a number of times since  2016  
and that they have  ignored her concerns. I can understand  how frustrating this must be for 
Ms S and I find it reasonable  that TFS covered the cost of an independent inspection to 
establish if there is a fault with the car. 
The inspection confirmed  the issue Ms S had raised,  although  it stated this only happened  
when the car was in manual mode.  Ms S disputes  this and says the issue  occurs  in both 
manual and automatic mode.  Ms S has sent a video  in which  she says she is driving  in 
automatic and the issue occurs. 
Whether the issue is present in only manual or in both manual  and automatic, it is accepted 
there is a fault with the car. TFS has noted  that Ms S didnt raise  this issue  until a long time 
after entering into the HPA. Ms S has said she raised it with the dealer in 2016. 
However, irrespective of this timing,  as the inspection report says the issue would have been 
present or developing at the point  of supply, I accept that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality that time. . 
Given an issue has been found that was present  at the point of supply, I have to consider the 
appropriate remedy. In this case Ms S has now had the car for over four years  and has 
made all the payments under the HPA including the final balloon payment.
I understand TFS comments  about  Ms S making the balloon payment and taking ownership 
and that she wouldnt  have done  this had she lost faith in the car. However I also understand 
Ms S comments that she had been making  payments for the car over an extended  period of 
time and didnt want to loose the money she had already paid towards  it. In any case, given 
the nature  of the issue and that it hasnt affected Ms S ability to drive the car, I dont think 
that rejection would have been a reasonable remedy  in this case.
Another option would be for the car to be investigated further  and potentially  repaired. 
However, given the comments that the issue isnt a safety concern and TFS comments 
about it being a characteristic of the car, I am concerned that further  investigation and 
possible repair may cause  more inconvenience  without benefit to Ms S. Therefore I agree 
with our investigator that the fairest resolution at this time is for Ms S to receive  a refund of 
part of the amount she has paid.
Ms S has been driving a car with this issue for an extended period of time and will continue 
to have to suffer this for the time she has the car. She says she raised it in 2016 and her 
concerns were ignored. While I note this wasnt raised with TFS but with the dealer, and so I 
cant hold TFS responsible for the delay in investigating this further, I do find that Ms S will 
have suffered a loss of enjoyment  over the last three  years  and will continue  to suffer this. 
Because of this I think it fair that she is refunded an amount that reflects this. Our 
investigator suggested £250.  However, I dont think this is sufficient. Instead I think  a larger  
refund, of £500  is fair. I know  this isnt the amount Ms S feels  is sufficient but based on the 
evidence I have seen,  the nature of the issue, and that the car has been able to be driven  
throughout, I find this a fair resolution.  
Ref: DRN97043324My final decision
My final decision is that Toyota Financial  Services (UK) Plc should pay Ms S £500 to 
compensate her for the issue  with her car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9704332