K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  plc is holding  him liable for a number of card 
transactions that he says he neither made  nor authorised. The payments were made on two 
Barclaycard accounts,  and Barclaycard  is a trading  name  of Barclays Bank UK plc.   
background
In March 2018 Mr D had two Barclaycard accounts, as well as bank accounts with other  
providers. Between  13 and 22 March  2018 his Barclaycard  accounts  were used to make  a 
number of retail payments. They totalled  more than £16,500  on one card and nearly £18,000 
on the other. At around the same time payments to the accounts were also made  £10,000 
on each. They were  reversed a few months  later when the paying institution concluded that 
they were not genuine.
Barclaycard says that its records  show that most of the payments were  made  using the 
genuine cards  and their respective PINs; one small payment was contactless and one was 
made online. 
Mr D says he wasnt responsible for the payments made using the cards, or for the credits 
made to the Barclaycard accounts. He was, he said, away on business at the time, around  
140 miles from where the payments had been  made. And hed left his cards at home  
around 140 miles in the other direction. 
Barclaycard also said that Mr D had called on a number of occasions  during March 2018. 
Amongst other things discussed  in those calls, Mr D had confirmed three  of the payments  
totalling around £11,000  as genuine. It concluded  that Mr D had either made  the payments 
himself or had authorised someone else to do so. It declined to offer a refund and Mr D 
referred the matter  to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ds complaint, but broadly agreed with Barclaycard 
that the evidence indicated he had authorised  the transactions  he was disputing.  Mr D didnt 
accept the investigators  conclusions  and asked that an ombudsman  review them.                  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did. 
Mr D says that, when the disputed  transactions  were taking  place, he was away on business  
in another part of the country. I accept that he was; hes provided evidence   by way of 
statements showing payments made  on a different card  demonstrating  that. But he also 
says that his Barclaycards were kept in his home and that they were  still there  when he 
returned. But Barclaycards evidence shows that the genuine cards were  used  to make the 
payments, around  280 miles from his home; Im satisfied that they were.  
Further, Mr D called  Barclaycard on 18 and 19 March. On each occasion he said he needed 
to get his cards to confirm the number   which he then appeared to do. Thats  not consistent 
with his cards being at his home  while he was elsewhere; and neither is it consistent  with the 
cards being  (as I believe they were) somewhere  else entirely. So either  Mr D was not where 
he says he was or he didnt in fact have his cards  with him, but did have their details. 
Ref: DRN95044812Ive listened to recordings of the calls that Mr D made to Barclaycard in the relevant period. 
On each occasion, the caller is asked security questions and is able to answer them 
correctly, confidently and without hesitation. Im satisfied that the caller  is Mr D. Indeed, the 
investigator summarised each call in her letter explaining why she didnt think Barclaycard 
should refund the disputed payments. Mr D hasnt challenged those calls, or suggested 
someone else was impersonating him. 
In the telephone calls Ive listened to Mr D expressly confirms that he authorises  three  of the 
payments  one for £270; one for just over £1,000; and two for nearly  £5,000 each. I dont 
believe he was mistaken or confused when doing  that; he wanted those payments to be made. 
Its reasonable to assume therefore  that he wanted the other  payments to be made as well. 
I think its significant too that Mr D doesnt appear  to have  challenged the payments until the 
reversal of the four inbound payments (of £5,000  each) made  to his Barclaycard accounts, 
nearly three  months later.  Thats  a further  indication  that he gave his authority for the card 
payments  but changed that view when  he found  out that they hadnt been funded. 
It may be that Mr D didnt make the card payments himself; as I say, there is evidence  that 
he was elsewhere  at the time they were made. But Im afraid  I find Mr Ds version of events 
to be inconsistent and unreliable in a number of areas.  In the circumstances,  I cannot  safely  
conclude that he neither  made nor authorised the disputed  transactions himself. I think he 
knows very much more about  what happened  here than he has told either  Barclaycard or 
this service. In the circumstances,  I dont believe it would  be fair to require  Barclaycard  to 
make any refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9504481