K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  because  National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) told the credit 
reference agencies  that hed been  in an arrangement to pay his mortgage.  He said the bank 
didnt tell him that the arrangement would have an adverse affect on his credit file. 
Mr W says its resulted  in him being  declined for credit. He wants  a formal apology,  his credit 
file correcting, and compensation for five years of credit problems.
background
Mr W had a NatWest  mortgage. He went travelling abroad, and missed  a number of 
mortgage payments.  The bank wrote  to him about the arrears. When  Mr W returned in May 
2012, he contacted NatWest. 
Banks arent  required to keep records indefinitely, and theres  no phone recording of the 
conversation. The banks notes, however, are still available and these record  a discussion 
on 31 May 2012. Mr W told NatWest that hed had a tenant  in the property while  hed been 
away, who had left, resulting in the mortgage  arrears. 
The banks notes  for 31 May also record Other relevant information: have advised of 
consequences and current  monthly  subscription.  Theres another  note dated  8 June which 
records The  customer situation hasnt changed,  the tenants  werent  making payment. 
Advised of [debt  charity  name] and the credit file.
NatWest and Mr W agreed  that Mr W would pay back the missed  payments by overpaying 
his usual monthly payments. He made the final overpayment in November 2014.
Mr W paid off his NatWest  mortgage  in January 2018.
Later in 2018,  Mr W discovered that his credit  file showed markers from the NatWest 
mortgage up to November 2014.  Mr W complained to NatWest. He said that at no point did 
NatWest explain to him that the agreed  repayment scheme of overpaying his mortgage 
would be classed as missed payments on his credit file, and have  a hugely adverse effect. 
He said he wouldnt have  taken that repayment route if hed been made aware  at the time, 
because he was now having trouble getting  any form of credit  or a mortgage.
NatWest didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. It said it had to report accurate information  to the 
credit reference agencies, and it was accurate that Mr Ws mortgage  was in arrears  until 
November 2014.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. He said that when he returned  in May 
2012, NatWest had given him the choice  of paying the arrears in a lump sum, or spreading 
them over two years. But he said he hadnt been  told it would show on his credit  file. He 
accepted hed missed  payments while he was away, but he wanted the arrangement 
markers removed. He said he wanted to get a new mortgage, but at the moment  he couldnt 
even get a credit card because of the markers.  Mr W said he wanted a formal  apology, his 
credit file correcting, and compensation for five years of credit problems.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  He looked at an extract from Mr Ws credit 
report, and saw that the NatWest mortgage as reported as being in an arrangement while  he 
was paying back  the arrears.  The adjudicator noted  that this was correct. And he said that 
Ref: DRN99400542the notes showed that on 31 May and 8 June 2012 NatWest  had made Mr W aware of the 
consequences to his credit file of entering  into an arrangement to spread out repayment of 
the arrears. He explained that this service  only asks a lender to remove information if its 
incorrect  and the information on Mr Ws credit file was correct.
Mr W didnt accept this. He said NatWest  hadnt provided him with clear and fair advice on 
the adverse effects that a repayment scheme  would have on his credit. He wanted to see 
copies of written documents NatWest had sent him telling him of the credit  impact of this way 
of repaying the arrears.  He said it was unacceptable that this would stop him getting any 
form of credit until January 2021.
Mr W also sent us copies  of a NatWest letter replying to a different complaint hed made 
more recently. That was about  credit file markers on a current  account, which  hed held 
jointly with another  person. Theres a paragraph in that letter about Mr Ws mortgage,  which  
says I can confirm that historic records show you did have arrangements on your mortgage 
account and this was correctly reflected as AR markers on your credit file, which was 
advised in your previous complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, this final decision is only about  Mr Ws complaint about his mortgage.  Mr W has sent 
us the banks letter about his complaint  about  a current account,  but this complaint isnt 
about that account, only about his mortgage.  Mr W has a separate  complaint with this 
service about the current account. The only relevance of that letter to this complaint is that 
the paragraph Ive quoted above shows that NatWest hadnt  changed  its mind  about the 
outcome of Mr Ws mortgage complaint. 
Mr Ws complaint  is that he says he wasnt warned that arrangement  markers  would  be put 
on his credit file, if he chose to pay off the mortgage arrears  gradually, instead of in a lump 
sum. Lenders dont  have  to keep records indefinitely, and as Ive set out above, NatWest  
has told us it no longer has phone call recordings from May 2012.  I find this is reasonable. 
So Ive looked  at the banks contact notes, as the evidence available from the time. Ive set 
out the relevant sections above,  and I find that these  show  that Mr W was told that there  
would be credit file implications.
Mr W has asked  for copies of letters advising him of the credit impact  of an arrangement.  
Lenders dont have to put in writing the fact that they have verbally told borrowers about the 
credit file impact of any arrangement to pay. And even if it had originally done so, the 
discussions took place  more than seven years  ago, which is longer than lenders are required 
to keep records, whether  verbal or written.  So it might no longer be available.
Ive also checked  whether  NatWest accurately reported on Mr Ws mortgage. Ive looked  at 
the extract from Mr Ws credit file, which  shows  that NatWest reported  arrears markers 
against his mortgage while he was abroad  and not paying. The credit file shows several 
months with a marker showing  the code for Early arrears 1  2 months late and also three 
months showing the more  serious  code for Sustained arrears  3-6 months late.
When Mr W was making  payments under the arrangement, the markers show the code  for 
Arrangement to pay in force. From December  2014 onwards, the credit file then shows 
Ref: DRN99400543OK until it was settled in January 2018.  Lenders have an obligation to report accurate 
markers, and I find that the bank was correct  to report  Mr Ws credit record  as it did.
I havent seen  all of Mr Ws credit  file, only a small extract, so I cant comment on his view 
that its NatWests arrangement markers on his mortgage which are preventing him from 
getting credit. But I would point out that a number of lenders will look not just at whether or 
not there is a marker, but what that marker says. So a marker  about an arrangement to pay, 
where a borrower  is trying  to get things back on course, may be viewed  less negatively than 
markers showing significant arrears.
I find that NatWest was correct to report the arrangement markers on Mr Ws account,  and 
the notes show  that he was told that there would be consequences of an arrangement to 
pay. So I dont  require NatWest to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9940054