K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs P complain about the mortgage they took out with Paratus AMC Limited  in 
2007. Mr M has dealt with the complaint  throughout.  He asks that hes no longer pursued for 
the debt.
background
Mr M and his ex-partner,  Mrs P, took out a joint mortgage with Paratus  in 2007. The 
mortgage was recommended  by a broker. The mortgage loan was sold to a new lender in 
2008. The account fell into arrears and the property was taken into possession and sold in 
2010. There was a shortfall of about £58,000.  Mr M says he wasnt  contacted about the 
shortfall until 2017.
Mr M says Paratus  should have transferred a mortgage indemnity guarantee (MIG)  hed paid 
for to the new lender, so that it could be used to repay the shortfall debt.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said while Mr M 
paid a higher lending  charge this wasnt  transferable or intended to protect him if the 
property was sold with a shortfall debt. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said if the MIG wasnt transferred  with his mortgage, this meant  his 
mortgage wasnt transferred on the same terms and Paratus shouldnt  have transferred  it. 
He said the MIG policy was there to be claimed  against if needed and its unfair  he can be 
pursued for the shortfall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Paratus transferred Mr Ms mortgage  to another business in 2008. Mr Ms property was sold 
in 2010. Mr M says he wasnt contacted about  the shortfall until 2017.  
I cant consider the actions of the lender that took over Mr Ms mortgage here, or the actions  
of the debt management business in trying  to collect the shortfall debt. I can only consider 
what Paratus did before transferring the loan in 2008.
A mortgage indemnity guarantee or higher  lending  charge is a fee charged  by a mortgage  
lender, where  the amount borrowed exceeds a given percentage of the value of the property. 
This is to protect the lender from the additional  risk in lending at a higher loan to value.
Paratus has transferred or destroyed its records of Mr Ms mortgage  account. Given  the time 
that has passed since it transferred the loan in 2008,  I dont draw  any inferences from this. 
The lender  it transferred  the loan to does have records related to Mr Ms mortgage, and 
provided copies  to us. It says no MIG policy was transferred  to it.
Ref: DRN93289342Paratus applied a higher  lending charge  when  Mr M took out the mortgage. Paratus 
mortgage conditions  said it would apply the charge  when it agreed to lend more  than its 
normal policy to lend.  
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Paratus bought a policy to protect against any 
shortfall on sale of the property. Even  if it had, the policy might not have  been  transferrable. 
And Mr M could still be pursued for the shortfall.  Put simply, a higher  lending charge or MIG 
was for the benefit of the lender : it wasnt for the benefit of Mr M and Mrs P and it offered no 
protection to them.
I havent seen  evidence that Paratus  was required to buy an insurance policy with the higher 
lending charge, or that it did so. I havent  seen evidence of any restriction  on the loan being  
transferred without a MIG policy. I dont think Paratus acted unfairly when it transferred to 
loan to another lender  without a MIG policy. 
Mr M has said how upsetting it was to be contacted in 2017 about the shortfall. But this 
contact was made by another business, which isnt acting on behalf  of Paratus. So, this isnt 
something I can consider  here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 October  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328934