K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given to him when he got a motorbike under a conditional 
sale agreement from Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc (Trading as Santander  Consumer 
Finance). 
Throughout his complaint,  Mr T has been  represented by his mother. But, to make things 
simpler, Ill just refer to Mr T.
background
In February 2018,  Mr T contacted a dealer  and asked  about a motorbike hed seen on the 
manufacturers website. Mr T says he didnt get a response, so he visited the dealer, to look 
at the motorbike and to get some advice  on how suitable  it was for him. Whilst he was there, 
Mr T says he couldnt take the motorbike for a test ride. Instead, he says he followed the 
dealers advice, to contact his local test centre  to try out a motorbike with the same  size 
engine.
When at the test centre, Mr T says he couldnt ride the motorbike at speeds similar to those 
he would  reach, on his normal route to work.  But, he says he trusted  what the dealer had 
told him, and a couple of days later, signed a conditional sale agreement to get a brand  new 
motorbike. The motorbike  was delivered to Mr Ts home in March 2018.
Soon after first riding the motorbike,  Mr T says he couldnt ride it any faster than 40mph. So, 
he contacted the dealer and says he was told the motorbike needed to bed in, by driving it at 
lower speeds for the first 600 miles.  He also says he was told that after 600 miles, the dealer 
would service the motorbike and he would  be able to ride it faster.
The service  was carried out by the dealer in May 2018. Mr T says that although the dealer 
was able to ride the motorbike faster than 40mph, it was still 10-15mph  short  of the speed he 
was told the motorbike could achieve,  before  he entered into the conditional sale agreement. 
Mr T also says that the dealer must have used more  revolutions per minute  to achieve those 
speeds, and this caused damage to the engine.
Mr T contacted the manufacturer and they told him the motorbike could achieve the 
advertised speeds, when ridden by an average  sized person. Mr T says that he is taller  and 
heavier than the average person, so he complained to the dealer. He says the dealer should  
have given him different advice, when he first enquired about the motorbike. He also 
complained that the crash  bars on the motorbike had rusted,  and that he hadnt yet received 
breakdown assistance or any warranty details from the dealer.
Around this time, Mr T passed a test to allow him to ride motorbikes with larger engines and 
told Santander that hed like to reject the motorbike he got under their agreement. Santander  
replied and told Mr T that theyd arrange  for an independent engineer to inspect the 
motorbike, to see if it was faulty. 
Neither Santander nor Mr T were able to arrange an inspection. So, Santander  sent Mr T a 
final response to his complaint. They said there  were no faults identified by the dealer  when  
the motorbike  was serviced  and they couldnt  comment on the problems Mr T had with the 
crash bars, the breakdown assistance  details or the dealers warranty.  Santander  asked 
Mr T to try and sort things out directly  with the dealer.
Ref: DRN90734292In June 2018, the dealer  replaced the crash  bars on Mr Ts motorbike and provided him with 
details of the breakdown assistance and the warranty. Mr T wasnt satisfied with this, so 
brought his complaint to us. Within his complaint, he told us that some accessories were 
included in the cost of the finance  agreement, but were not itemised  on the actual agreement 
forms. So, he says it looks like the motorbike  cost more than it did.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ts complaint. They concluded that there was no 
evidence showing a fault with the motorbike or that any accessories were included  in the 
finance agreement. Mr T didnt accept this and said that the dealer should  have known  the 
motorbike wasnt suitable for him, from the start. Mr T also told us that he had sold the 
motorbike and had repaid  the outstanding balance owed under agreement with Santander.
The case  was given  to a different adjudicator, who concluded that the dealer sold Mr T a 
motorbike to suit what  he was qualified to ride and that the bike wasnt  really ridden enough 
after the dealers  service. Mr T disagreed with this finding  and said the motorbike was driven 
for over 300 miles  after the service, and the dealer should have realised he was larger  than 
an average person.  
After some further discussion,  it was agreed  that the adjudicator  would review  the dealers 
responsibilities, from the time the agreement  was entered  into. The adjudicator  concluded 
that Mr T had researched the kind of motorbike he wanted, and that the dealer didnt sell any 
motorbikes with larger engines, that Mr T was able to ride. He also said he didnt think the 
dealer had made any false  statements  before the sale, so Mr T wasnt able to reject the 
motorbike now.
Mr T disagreed and said he must have believed what the dealer had told him, otherwise he 
wouldnt have agreed to take the motorbike. He also said there was no evidence to say there 
wasnt a fault with the motorbike. In his response, Mr T asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by on ombudsman. So, his case has been  passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the conversations with the dealer before the sale
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  says that a finance provider is responsible for 
any antecedent  negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In Mr Ts case, the dealer acted 
as Santanders  agent with his conditional sale agreement.
Mr T has shown us the research he did, before he went to the dealer, about the motorbike 
he eventually got from them.  Mr T has also shown us the emails he sent to the dealer, along  
with a list of the accessories he was also thinking  of buying. Taking everything into 
consideration, on balance, I think Mr T already had a very good  idea of the type of motorbike 
he wanted to get, before  he spoke to the dealer.
When Mr T was at the dealership, he says he spoke to the dealer about  looking at some 
reviews on the motorbike. He says he was also told to test ride a motorbike  with a similar 
sized engine. So, I think there was a period of time, when the dealer told Mr T to find out 
more for himself, if the motorbike was the one he wanted to get. Mr T returned to the dealer 
and decided to get the motorbike, under the conditional sale agreement  from Santander.
Ref: DRN90734293I acknowledge that Mr T was unable to test ride the motorbike  at the dealers showroom.  
But, hes told us he was able to do so at a test centre. Ive also considered  that Mr T couldnt  
fully test how fast the motorbike would travel, with him riding on it. But, I think  it was for Mr T 
to find out this information himself, if that was a key feature  of a motorbike he was looking to 
buy.
In all the circumstances, I dont think the dealer induced Mr T into getting the motorbike, 
because Mr T wasnt encouraged to enter the agreement on his first visit to their showroom. 
I think there was time for Mr T to find out more about  the motorbike and to test ride it. So, on 
balance, Im persuaded Mr T was given the opportunity to add to his research and make a 
decision, when  he was comfortable  to do so.
Once Mr T had made the decision to get the motorbike, I have considered if the dealer  
should have made him aware, that he may have needed a larger engine, due to his frame. 
Mr T has provided  evidence to show that he could be considered taller and heavier than the 
average male, in the UK. And hes also shown us evidence from the manufacturer, that an 
average sized rider should be able to achieve the kind of speeds Mr T wanted to reach.
I agree,  that Mr T is probably taller and heavier  than an average male  in the UK. But, I dont  
think his frame is significantly  larger, to the extent where it should  have been obvious to the 
dealer, that there would have been  an issue for the motorbikes performance.  In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mr Ts frame should  have stood out to the dealer, whereby they 
should have persuaded  him to not take the motorbike.
After taking everything into consideration, on balance, I dont think  the dealer treated Mr T 
unfairly when Mr T got the motorbike under the conditional sale agreement.
the quality of the motorbike
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is implied into the agreement  between Santander and 
Mr T. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory  quality where they meet  
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory, taking into consideration 
the description of the goods,  the price paid and any other relevant circumstances. 
In complaints about the quality of a motorbike, the price paid, the mileage at the time of the 
sale and the motorbikes history need  to be taken into account. In this case, the motorbike 
supplied to Mr T was brand new at the point  of sale. So, I think  a reasonable person  would  
expect it to be free of defects, even minor ones. 
Ive thought about Mr Ts short  term right to reject  the motorbike after he took delivery  of it in 
March 2018. Under  the CRA,  Mr T had thirty  days to tell the dealer that hed like to reject the 
motorbike, if there was a fault. Mr T spoke to the dealer within  the thirty day period,  about 
the speeds he was able to reach.  But, he was told that the motorbike had to bed in first, 
before he could reach higher speeds.  
Having looked  at the owners guidance for the motorbike,  I think  Mr T was given the correct 
advice here.  I dont think the dealer  agreed with Mr T that there  was a fault, and that the 
outcome of his enquiry, was to book a date for the first service  after 600 miles. Mr T says 
this paused the thirty day period, until the motorbike had been  fixed.  But, on balance,  I think  
the thirty  day period remained in place because  Mr T was given advice which  is consistent  
Ref: DRN90734294with the owners  manual. I dont think this meant  a fault was identified by either  Mr T or the 
dealer.
Mr T had also told the dealer that the motorbikes second gear was slipping, within  the thirty 
day period. Ive considered Mr Ts comments here and the outcome of the service by the 
dealer. Although Mr T says that this problem was still there after the service, I cannot see 
that it was looked into again, before he sold the motorbike in June 2019. Also, the dealers 
notes from the service, dont suggest that there were any problems found,  with the 
motorbikes second  gear.  However, the dealer did acknowledge that the change  from gear 
one to two, included the neutral position. But, the dealer  says that this is part of how the 
motorbike works, rather than any kind of fault.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont  think the motorbike was of an unsatisfactory 
quality or unfit for purpose within  the first thirty days of Mr T getting it. In all the 
circumstances, I think  the problem Mr T experienced wasnt  enough to say that he would 
have had a right to reject  the motorbike. And I think Mr T first told the dealer  that hed like to 
reject the motorbike, after the thirty  day period was over.
Mr T says that not having the details  of the warranty and breakdown  assistance,  meant  that 
all the goods werent  delivered in March 2018. Because of this, he says the thirty day period 
to reject the motorbike didnt start until he received those details. I have considered this point 
and although I agree Mr T didnt have the actual documents, I dont think this meant  the 
warranty or breakdown  assistance wasnt available to him.
I think its likely the dealer would have allowed Mr T to use the warranty,  if Mr T needed it. 
And, on balance, I think if Mr Ts motorbike had broken  down, the dealer would have made 
arrangements for the breakdown cover he had, to work for him. So, in all the circumstances,  
I think the thirty day period to reject  the motorbike started the day after Mr T took delivery of 
it, in March 2018.
Before the service, Mr T had complained about the crash bars that had rusted. The dealer 
didnt have the crash bars in stock at the time, but agreed to replace them  when they could. I 
can see from Santanders notes  and from Mr Ts comments, that the crash  bars were 
replaced at the end of June 2018.  So, I agree  that this was some time after Mr T had first 
raised the issue with them. 
I have considered all the evidence  and I think the fault with the crash bars was there,  or was 
developing at the point of sale. I think Mr T was prepared  to keep the motorbike and let the 
dealer find a replacement part, within the first thirty days  of having it. I dont think  the fault 
was severe enough  to warrant Mr T being  able to reject the motorbike and I think it was fair 
for the dealer to have  an opportunity to try and repair the problem. So, I think  the dealer 
treated Mr T fairly, by replacing  the faulty part, when  they had it in stock.
the accessories  and the agreement form
Ive considered that the invoice from the dealer shows  just a cost for the motorbike, which  
included the individual accessories. The cost of the accessories isnt listed separately, and I 
think this could give the impression that the motorbike cost more than it did. So, I dont think  
the dealers invoice is put together  very clearly.  
Ref: DRN90734295But, I dont think this means Mr T has been treated  unfairly as a result.  I think Mr T was still 
able to tell other parties, like insurance  companies,  the actual cost of his motorbike and 
expand if necessary about  the cost of the accessories he bought.  
Mr T sold the motorbike and repaid the finance  quite some  time ago. I know  the time weve 
been dealing  with this case has meant that things have moved  on. So, having the 
accessories costs listed on the dealers invoice may not be as important now. But, in all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Santander need  to take any further action in respect of the 
dealers invoice.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073429