K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that when she attempted to withdraw £500 from her account  with Skrill 
Limited (Skrill)  there were insufficient  funds, since £300 had been automatically  deducted  
from her balance to cover  an historic chargeback, which  she disputes is legitimate.
background
Miss L opened an account  with Skrill on the 6 July 2014. This is an electronic money 
account enabling her to send and receive electronic  payments.  She used the account 
regularly making  deposits  to it, and then making  payments from it, to a variety  of gaming 
merchants. 
On the 27 July 2014 Miss L deposited £300  from her credit/debit card. £300 was then 
immediately transferred to her Betfair  account.  Miss L continued to use her Skrill account 
until the 12 August  2014, but on the 19 September 2014 a chargeback  request was received 
for the £300 deposit taking her account to a debit balance of £299.99.
In January 2019 Miss L says she was the victim  of fraud as someone had managed to hack 
her bank account sending £500 from it to her Skrill account. When  she attempted to return  
the £500 to her bank she couldnt  because the balance was only £195 as the original debit 
balance (and fees)  had been automatically cleared.
Miss L disputes the original 2014  chargeback and feels  that her account  should be put back  
into the position it was so that there are then sufficient funds to allow her to withdraw the 
£500. She has produced her bank statement for September 2014 which she says shows 
there is no evidence  that the £300  was credited  back  to that account.
Skrill have said that they did receive a charge back request in 2014 from Miss Ls bank, and 
with which  they complied.  That placed  her account in debit  and when they received the £500 
deposit they simply acted  in line with the accounts terms and conditions of use, which  
automatically led to the clearance of the debit balance. They also said that the £500 deposit 
which had been  made had come  from the same  IP address as that to which Miss L withdrew 
the remaining  balance.
Miss L was unhappy with Skrills response  and so an investigator from this service looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think Skrill had done  anything wrong. Miss L disagreed with that 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Ref: DRN95868962In so far as the £500 deposit is concerned the clear  evidence  is that it was performed from 
the same  IP address  as to that which Miss L subsequently withdrew  the remaining balance.  
That is persuasive evidence that it is more likely that Miss L did in fact deposit the £500 to 
the Skrill account, and is simply mistaken  when she believes her account  was hacked.
The main  area of dispute is whether  the original £300 ever left Miss Ls account by way of 
chargeback. Her Skrill account clearly shows this amount  leaving the account and thereafter  
multiple transactions performed by Miss L. Miss L did not raise  any challenge about the debit 
of the £300 at that time. Had the transaction been  in dispute, as it now appears to be, I think  
it would  have been disputed then by Miss L.
I appreciate that Miss L has told our investigator that Skrill might have made up the 
transaction, since it does  not appear on her September 2014 statement as a credit, but there 
might be another  explanation for that, such as it appears on another statement. I have to 
consider whether Skrill would make up such a transaction, and in my view it is more  likely 
that they would not. To do so would constitute  criminal  activity,  and something that would 
easily become known. Given that Skrill  have  documented all other  transactions  correctly, 
and there  was no challenge  at the time, I think it more likely  than not that the chargeback  in 
2014 was genuine.
In the light of those  findings, when Miss L deposited the £500 into her Skrill account in 
January 2019,  then in accordance with the terms and conditions  of her account,  it simply 
corrected the debit balance. As such Skrill have done nothing wrong.
I know Miss L will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion 
as the investigator  and for the same reason. Im not satisfied that Skrill have treated Miss L 
unfairly, and so Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Skrill Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586896