K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Fairmead  Insurance Limited declined their claim for subsidence  
on their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A had a home insurance  policy that was underwritten  by Fairmead. At the 
beginning of 2018 they made a claim after noticing cracks in the extension  to their property.  
Fairmead attended the property to inspect the damage.  After a period of site inspections and 
monitoring, it concluded that the cracks were caused by subsidence.  However, it said that 
the foundations of the extension werent deep  enough to meet  building requirements.  So it 
said it would  be excluded  from cover  under  the policy as it was due to defective design.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  think this was fair and made a complaint to Fairmead. They  said that the 
structure had been  signed off by the council who had issued a certificate to confirm  it met the 
required building regulations. 
Fairmead didnt uphold their complaint. It said based on building guidelines, the foundations 
werent sufficient for the ground  type and location  of the structure.  So this would be excluded 
from cover. It also said that it had looked  at the original plans for the extension  and these  
stated the foundations should be 2500mm deep.  And its investigations had shown that the 
foundations were only 2000mm deep. So it said the builders didnt meet  the requirements of 
the original plans and this showed the foundations were defective.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt  think it was fair. They said as the council had signed  off the extension,  
they wouldnt have  known that the foundations werent as deep  as they should have been, 
so they couldnt mitigate  the risk. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr and Mrs As complaint be 
upheld. She said as Mr and Mrs A had been  issued with a Certificate of Completion of Work 
that declared the structure was compliant with building regulations,  they wouldnt have 
reasonably been aware that the builders hadnt stuck  to the original plans.  So she didnt 
think it was fair for Fairmead to apply  the exclusion in this case.  
Fairmead didnt agree  with our investigator, as it said the primary cause of the subsidence 
was the defective foundations, so the exclusion would  fairly apply. It asked for the complaint  
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made  it is for the insured to prove that there  is an insured peril  
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or 
to prove  an exclusion  in the policy  applies.
In this case, Fairmead has accepted  that there  is an insured  peril  subsidence. However it 
has said that the subsidence  has only happened  because the foundations of the extension 
are defective, and this is excluded  under  the policy. 
Ref: DRN90203092The policy states,  under  the section for subsidence  cover:
what is not covered
g) Damage resulting  from
(ii) faulty workmanship, defective  design or the use of defective materials in the Buildings
So I can see that subsidence claims are excluded where the damage has been caused  by 
defective design or faulty workmanship. I need to decide whether Fairmead has applied this 
exclusion fairly in this case.  
Fairmead has said that standards applied by a builder of new homes  Ill refer to them  as 
N - stipulate  that foundations should be built 2,500mm deep in areas with clay soil. And its 
investigations have  shown that the foundations of Mr and Mrs As extension are only 
2,000mm deep.  So it said that as the foundations dont meet Ns guidance,  they are 
defective. 
Ive looked at the guidelines issued by N and I dont agree these apply  here. N provides 
guidelines for new build houses.  Mr and Mrs As claim relates to an extension to their 
property which wasnt a new build.  So the builders of the extension werent required to 
consider this guidance. For this reason, it wouldnt be fair to apply them  here. 
Instead we would expect the extension to be built in line with the relevant building 
regulations at the time. Mr and Mrs A have provided  a certificate  of completion that was 
issued by the council. This certficiate states  as follows:
It is certified that so far as the Council has been able to ascertain, after taking all
reasonable steps in that behalf, the substantive requirements of Building Regulations are
satisfied.
Further, I have looked at the regulations that were in place at the time the extension was 
built in 2007. These  stipulate that foundations should be built at a minimum depth of 750mm 
in clay soils. So Im satisfied that the foundations of Mr and Mrs As extension do meet  the 
relevant requirements.
Fairmead has also said that it has reviewed the original plans for Mr and Mrs As extension  
that were signed  off by the council  in 2006  before the build started. It says that these plans 
stated the foundations should be built at a depth of 2,500mm. It said the fact that they 
werent, shows the builders didnt  follow  the original instruction and therefore the foundations 
are defective. 
While it isnt clear  why the builders diverted from the original plans,  the fact they did isnt 
enough to say that the foundations are defective.  The council signed off the finished build. 
So Im satisfied that even  though the builders did divert from the original plans,  the council 
were still satisfied that the build met the relevant building regulations 
So for these reasons I dont think Fairmead has acted fairly by declining Mr and Mrs As 
claim based on the exclusion for defective design. I therefore require Fairmead to accept 
their claim and settle it in line with the other policy terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN90203093my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to accept Mr and Mrs As 
claim for subsidence and settle it in line with other policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9020309