K820x#14complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) has taken responsibility for the sale so Ill 
refer to FICL  throughout  this decision.  
background
The PPI was sold to Miss R in 1995  with a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss R disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ive seen a copy  of the store card credit agreement which  Miss R signed. This has a section  
in it headed Protection For Your Payments and Your Purchases. And I can see that a tick 
has been placed in the box provided for selecting  single cover  under the PPI policy.  I can 
also see that no selection has been  made in another part of the agreement  covering the 
option to choose card protection.  
So on the evidence  available  to me I think its most  likely that PPI cover was discussed with 
Miss R during the meeting  and she actively decided to take it knowing that it was optional.  
Miss R has said that she felt very rushed during  the meeting, but I dont think  this is enough 
for me to conclude  that FICL put undue  pressure on her to take out the PPI during the 
meeting. And I also need to take account of the fact that this sale took place a very long time 
ago and memories  of what happened  in meetings  of this sort tend to fade over such  
timescales.
I dont think that this was an advised  sale. So FICL  didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy 
was suitable for Miss R. But it still needed to give her enough information about the policy for 
her to decide if she wanted  to take it. From  what Ive seen, I think  that FICL could have 
provided better information to Miss R than it did. But I dont think  that better information 
would have changed her mind  about  buying it. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Miss R says she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer. But this policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to any other  means  she had available  at the time if she wasnt 
able to work because  of an accident, sickness or unemployment. And its likely to have 
paid out for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. So I still think she would have 
found the protection for her card repayments  that the policy gave  her useful if things 
went wrong.
Ref: DRN98323042Miss R says she couldnt afford the PPI cover.  But she hasnt been  able to show why she 
thinks this to be the case. So I dont  think I could fairly conclude  that the policy was 
unaffordable for her on the very limited  information I have available to me about her 
circumstances at the time. And as the PPI premiums  were paid monthly, she could have 
cancelled the policy if it no longer  met her needs.
So I dont  think that Miss R has lost out by anything that FICL may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832304