K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited  blocked his account  and refused  to accept 
payments from a debit  card he had used previously. He is also unhappy that it contacted 
another bank  about his debit card.
background
In November 2017, Mr M made a payment to his Vanquis credit card account using a debit 
card he had used previously. While  this payment  was processed, Vanquis asked him to 
prove the debit  card belonged to him.
Mr M told Vanquis that hed always made payments to his credit card account  using this 
debit card. So, he didnt want to provide it with evidence that the card belonged to him. 
Vanquis told him that because it couldnt  verify he had authority to use the card it was 
suspending his credit  card account.  So, he wouldnt be able to make  further  payments to his 
Vanquis account using this card.   Vanquis  also told him what would be required to verify the 
debit card before it would permit further  use with his Vanquis account. And it said that, until 
he provided the information it needed,  he could continue to make payments to his credit card 
account in alterative ways.
Mr M wasnt happy about this and, when he complained to Vanquis,  he said it told him that it 
had contacted another bank, which Ill call R, about  the debit card he had used. Mr M said 
he wasnt a customer of R and Vanquis  didnt have  his consent to speak to R about  him. So, 
he thought Vanquis  had breached the rights he has under relevant data protection legislation  
in speaking to R about him. But Vanquis  didnt agree  with Mr M. It said it didnt think  it had 
made a mistake when  it suspended his account and requested that he prove the debit card 
belonged to him. It suggested it was entitled to do this based  on the terms and conditions of 
his account and because it has an obligation to protect itself and its account holders.
When Mr M brought his complaint to us he said he wanted Vanquis  to allow him to pay his 
credit card balance using the debit card he had used  previously. And he wanted it to admit it 
had made  a mistake. Our adjudicator looked  into this and, while they empathised  with Mr M, 
didnt think that Vanquis  had done  anything wrong  or needed to do anything  more here. But 
Mr M disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first part of Mr Ms complaint is about Vanquis  decision to suspend his account  and 
refuse to accept further payments from the debit card he had used previously. So, Ill focus  
on that issue first. 
Im not persuaded that Vanquis did anything wrong either when it blocked Mr Ms account  
from accepting payments from this debit  card or when it requested proof  that the debit card 
he had used belonged to him. It is allowed to do this under the terms and conditions of Mr 
Ms credit card account. Mr M accepted  these  when he opened the account. So it is fair and 
reasonable it now relies  on these  terms and conditions  given  each agreed  to contract on this 
basis. I can see Vanquis, gave Mr M the opportunity to provide evidence that the card 
belonged to him and said once it received this it would remove the block.  I think Mr M 
Ref: DRN98052412couldve easily proved  the card belonged  to him. I say this because  Vanquis told Mr M that if 
he wanted to continue to use the debit card it wouldve  accepted a redacted image of the 
card itself or a bank  statement  showing the transaction debiting  his account. But, I 
understand that Mr M chose not to provide this proof  to Vanquis. So it chose not to remove 
the block it had placed on his account.
Here, I think  it was reasonable for Vanquis  to request the information it did from Mr M. It 
needed to satisfy itself that the debit  card belonged to Mr M and that, if it didnt belong to 
him, he had the authority of the account holder  to use it. Mr M had only had recently opened 
an account with Vanquis when  this problem arose and, so, he hadnt used the card much  
before. But even if he had used this card regularly in the past, Im satisfied that this was still 
a legitimate action  by Vanquis.
Vanquis had an obligation  to proactively check who the card belonged to and it said it only 
verifies payments where it thinks it is appropriate  to do so in the circumstances. As Mr M 
didnt provide the information Vanquis needed. In these circumstances, I dont think  it acted 
unfairly in refusing to accept any further  payments made using this card.  Im satisfied that 
this was most likely  done in the interests of customer security, which  I think  was reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Having seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card I can see they clearly state that 
Vanquis can refuse to process a transaction in the interests of account  security and where it 
believes it is necessary  to do so. So, here I think Vanquis acted in line with the terms of Mr 
Ms account  when it refused to process further transactions from the debit card Mr M had 
used previously.
I understand that Mr M has missed a lot of payments to his credit card from December  2017  
onwards. I can see Vanquis  refunded three charges that were  incurred after the block  was 
added, which is more than Id have  asked it to do here. I say this because the block  didnt  
prevent Mr M from managing his account  with Vanquis. And he was told he could make 
payments to his account in alternative  ways  such as by using giro slips and bank transfer  
the details of which its given him. So, I dont think Mr M was disadvantaged by the decision. 
Vanquis made here. I can see our adjudicator has told Mr M that if he doesnt  make the 
payments that are due to Vanquis  his credit file may be affected,  
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ms complaint, which  is about  Vanquis contacting R.
I can see that our adjudicator has already  explained in detail to Mr M that when Vanquis 
looked at the debit  card details he provided to pay his credit  card balance  it identified the 
card as one that had been issued by R. A bank is able to identify which  bank has issued a 
debit card through its payment  system.  Vanquis say that, at the time the payment was made,  
its system identified that the card Mr M had used was issued by R. So, while  I understand 
that Mr M says he doesnt bank  with R, this may explain why theres  been  reference to R in 
this case.
Having said that, I havent seen any evidence  that Vanquis contacted R or discussed 
personal information about Mr M with it. Vanquis said it didnt contact R either by phone, 
letter or email. But Mr M told our service  that he has a copy  of the telephone call where he 
says Vanquis told him it had contacted  R. Because  Vanquis say it doesnt have a copy  of 
this call only Mr M can provide evidence of it. I can see that our adjudicator asked  Mr M to 
provide a copy of the recording to us on several occasions. And I understand that Mr M 
wont provide it.
Ref: DRN98052413Where theres a disagreement about  what happened, as there is here,  I have to base my 
decision based on what I think is more  likely  to have happened in the circumstances, on the 
balance of the evidence available. Ive given careful  consideration  to what  is being said here. 
But based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I think its more  likely than not, on balance, that if this 
discussion had taken  place, Mr M would provide evidence  of this to our service. I say this 
because it would easily contradict what Vanquis  told us about what  happened. And Vanquis 
told us that, while it was able to carry out card verification checks in the event  of suspicion of 
fraud in 2017,  R didnt  take part in these checks.  So, a call wouldnt have been made  to it. It 
follows that I think its more likely  than not that Vanquis didnt contact R. 
I can see that our adjudicator has already  explained that its not our role to decide whether a 
breach of data protection legislation has taken place. Thats the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office  but, overall,  Im not persuaded that Vanquis has done  anything wrong 
here.
I know this wont be the response Mr M will want and I understand he feels  very strongly  
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given,  I dont think  Vanquis 
made an error here.  I think that it has responded to this complaint fairly and reasonably  and I 
wont be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805241