K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc refused a claim he brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 following an alleged breach of contract  by the 
supplier of a holiday  he booked. He wants the full purchase price refunded.
background
Mr S tells us he booked a holiday with a supplier Ill call P for several  family  members, 
including a younger relative  who had travelled from abroad. He used his NatWest  credit card 
and says he paid £489 for the four night stay.  He says the holiday was based in a holiday 
park and amongst  the facilities advertised was a Freestyle Teens Club. Mr S says he 
checked on a number of occasions  and was assured the facility would be available. He says 
on arriving at the site he discovered  the facility was not provided.  Mr S tells us that if he had 
known it would not be available he would not have booked this particular holiday and feels 
he should get a full refund. He says P unilaterally  refunded him £100  - even though hed 
refused to accept its offer which had also included  some  vouchers discounting  the cost of a 
future holiday.
NatWest told us it felt the refund made by P for the failure to provide the Teens Club service 
was fair. It said Mr S and his family  would  have had access to other facilities  - so it didnt 
agree a full refund was required.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She accepted that part 
of the advertised  facilities had not been  supplied. And that this would have impacted on the 
enjoyment of all members of the party. But she said that other facilities  had been available  
and the group stayed at the holiday park for the full duration. She felt a partial refund - rather  
than a total refund - was appropriate. As P had already  refunded £100 to Mr S she didnt 
think NatWest had acted  unfairly in not refunding the full amount.
Mr S didnt agree and said he only booked the holiday with P because of the Teens Club.  As 
its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman  has been asked to make the 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S and his family  didnt  get the level of enjoyment and satisfaction from the 
holiday which hed anticipated.  And I accept the sense of disappointment that would have  
been occasioned when it was discovered  the Teens Club facility was unavailable.
I believe Mr S when  he states that if hed known the Teens Club would not be available hed 
not have booked this holiday.
As Mr S brings his claim under section 75 I should explain our approach to such  complaints.
Briefly summarised, section 75 allows a consumer - using certain types  of credit - to make  a 
like claim against the supplier of finance  (NatWest) as they could  against  the supplier of 
goods and/or services  (P). But it requires there to have been a misrepresentation and/or  
breach of contract by the supplier. Other restrictions apply but NatWest does not dispute that 
Mr S was able to bring a claim under this provision.
Ref: DRN92525192I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. This means  that it is not for me 
to decide if there was a breach of contract and/or  misrepresentation.  And as Mr Ss 
complaint is about  NatWest Im looking at whether it has dealt  with his claim under section 
75 fairly. Im not deciding  on the merits of the underlying claim he may have against P. 
Although in determining if NatWest has treated him fairly I have to consider the way in which  
its considered the validity  of that claim.
I dont think theres any significant dispute about  the relevant facts.  It was clearly a matter of 
considerable importance to Mr S that the Teens Club facility would be available. Thats 
demonstrated by him changing to a holiday park in a different location from that which he 
originally booked in order to try and ensure  this. Which makes it even more  disappointing 
that things didnt work out.
I believe NatWest was right to acknowledge that P did not provide part of the service  it had 
promised. And I think the failure by P - in these  particular circumstances - probably 
amounted to either a breach of contract and/or a misrepresentation.  
Our normal approach  would be to try and restore a customer to the position  theyd  have 
been in had the breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation  not occurred. Thats not 
possible here as Mr S and his party stayed for the duration of the holiday theyd booked.  
In explaining  my decision I need  to deal specifically with a point Mr S has emphasised - as I 
think it gets to the heart of his complaint. He stated:
There has been constant repetition  in correspondence that we had benefit  from
the holiday and could have used other amenities, but surely it is our choice  as to
what sort of holiday we wished to have and what activities we wished to
participate in?
Whilst I agree with the sentiment expressed  I have to make my decision on the basis of what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. And although  I accept Mr S would not have booked this 
holiday had he known  the facility was not available that does not mean hes entitled to a full 
refund. 
The law generally recognises that part performance  of a contract allows a supplier to be paid 
for that proportion of goods and/ or services which were provided - unless any omission  
results in the failure of the whole contract. In my view the Teens Club was provided only as 
an ancillary part of the overall  contract  which - ignoring other facilities  - was substantially  
fulfilled by the provision of accommodation.
In these circumstances I think NatWest was entitled  to take the view it did and consider - 
bearing in mind the overall cost of the holiday - a refund of £100 (approximately 20%)  was 
fair.
In summary,  I think NatWest dealt with the claim brought by Mr S under section 75 fairly.  
And the decision it reached  - regarding the level of compensation paid by P - was in keeping 
with the circumstances. So Im not asking it do to do anything  else.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr S Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN92525193my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252519