K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about the decision of NCI Vehicle Rescue Plc to change her motor  
insurance policy and charge  her an additional  premium after it identified  a problem with its 
records of her husbands drivers license history.
 
background
Mrs P used a price comparison website to obtain motor insurance  for herself.  Her husband  
was also intended  as a named driver. She entered both of their details  and selected  cover 
provided by NCI who act as a broker for an insurance underwriter. In answering questions  
about her husbands drivers license Mrs P selected  the option  that hed held a provisional  
license since 2015. In fact, Mr P had previously held and lost a full drivers license due to 
driving convictions. At the time of her completing the online application he held a provisional  
license issued in 2015. He also had restrictions on his license due to a health condition.
When Mrs P provided copies of documents to NCI they saw that Mr Ps drivers license 
showed that hed held a license since 1990. NCI came to the conclusion  that hed in fact 
held this provisional license for more than twenty  years. It said that had it been  aware  of that 
at the time then it wouldnt have offered the policy that it did. It told Mrs P that her husband 
would have to be removed from the policy and also that an additional premium  was needed 
as well as an administration fee for making  this change.  Mrs P reluctantly made the payment 
so that she would retain her essential motor  insurance cover.
But she complained  that shed answered  the questions shed been asked to the best of her 
ability. She explained the true position  about her husbands driving history.  But she said that 
shed chosen  the most  appropriate answer  to the questions shed been asked and hadnt 
misled NCI. She wanted her extra payment  refunded and some compensation for the 
inconvenience that shed suffered, including losing insurance cover for her husband whod 
originally been  named  on the policy also. NCI felt that it hadnt done anything  wrong  and so 
Mrs P complained to this service.
Our adjudicator issued  a number of views over a long period due to a number of changes in 
the information supplied to her. Ultimately  she felt that NCI had acted unfairly and that it 
should refund the extra  payment  and pay compensation to Mrs P. NCI didnt agree with that 
view so the dispute has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicators view that 
this complaint should be upheld.
Theres been quite  a lot of confusion  about  this dispute since  it came to this service. There 
were disagreements  over whether the complaint should be against the underwriter or NCI as 
well as disputes about what questions Mrs P was asked and whether how shed  answered  
meant that shed been guilty of misleading  NCI. Such confusion  isnt unusual  in cases 
involving disputes about information entered online as often users pass between  different 
online sites when answering questions and potentially then confirming those answers. Since  
the adjudicator  issued  her latest  view NCI were hoping to obtain some further information 
from a third party about the format of the online system but despite several extensions of 
time no further information  has been  forthcoming.
Ref: DRN96333312When answering questions to obtain insurance there are rules laid down in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act, known as CIDRA,  about the responsibilities  
of consumers and the actions available  to insurers. The Act requires that consumers answer 
questions accurately, and details  what should happen if the consumer  provides  incorrect  
information carelessly, deliberately or recklessly.  Importantly, an accidental wrong answer 
doesnt qualify  as being a misrepresentation, which would  in turn allow  the insurer  a remedy  
under the act such as to cancel the policy.
So to decide whether  NCI has acted  fairly  I need to determine how Mrs P answered 
questions she was asked,  specifically whether she gave  any wrong answers and, if she did, 
whether that was done carelessly, deliberately,  or recklessly. 
Despite some of the confusion in this case Im satisfied, from the evidence  Ive seen, that 
Mrs P was asked to answer a question about her husbands current license. And Im also 
satisfied that answering that he held a provisional  license  since  2015 was accurate, certainly  
within her and her husbands own understanding. I dont believe that Mrs P was asked a 
clear question about any previous drivers  license  so there was no requirement or 
opportunity to disclose  his longer  driving record. Im conscious that the way that Mr Ps 
drivers license actually records his details implies  that hes had a provisional license since 
1990. I believe that to be a fault of the way the information is presented and that it seeks 
only to record that he had a provisional drivers  license since  that time rather than that the 
one he currently holds  was issued then. Im satisfied  that, even if technically the license is 
considered to be a single entity since first issue, the answer that Mrs P gave was accurate to 
the best of her ability. As a result,  there is no qualifying misrepresentation upon  which  NCI is 
entitled to act.
I ought to record  that even if there  had been  a qualifying misrepresentation CIDRA  doesnt 
allow NCI a remedy of requiring an additional premium  when it identifies  that if it had known 
about the missing  information more would have been charged for the policy.  This service 
takes the view that while  seeking agreement of the consumer  to pay the extra premium 
might be desirable, as it allows continuity of cover, the Act actually only allows the insurer to 
either cancel  the policy or notify the consumer of its intention to pay any claim 
proportionately to the amount of premium paid. And if the policy is cancelled then the 
premiums need to be repaid without penalty.
In any event, in this case, I take the view that there  was no misrepresentation on which  NCI 
was entitled to act. Having  had a genuine  answer to its question  it should have continued to 
cover Mrs P at no extra charge when it later discovered other facts about Mr Ps driving 
history. And if the underwriting insurer demanded an extra premium then that would have 
been an issue between  it and NCI to resolve.   
As a result I uphold this complaint.  I agree  with the adjudicators view on the appropriate 
remedy. I require NCI to refund in full any additional premium and charges paid by Mrs P 
and including  interest. NCI should  also pay £250  compensation  for its incorrect  action which 
caused her upset and inconvenience.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against NCI Vehicle Rescue Plc and require it to repay any additional  
premium plus fees charged to Mrs P. Interest is payable on this sum, at the annual  rate of 
8% simple,  from the date it was paid to the date that NCI refund it. In addition it should pay a 
Ref: DRN96333313total of £250 compensation for the wrong action it took and for the stress  and inconvenience  
that action caused Mrs P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633331