K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr W says HSBC  Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr W says he bought  the policy when taking out a credit card in a meeting with HSBC.   
I issued my provisional decision on 19 February  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was not intending to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr W nor HSBC have responded with any new or further information for 
me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99015832provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken  out in 1996. 
Mr W says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Mr W says he bought the policy when taking out a credit card in a meeting with HSBC.    
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Im not intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC doesnt have copies  of the actual paperwork Mr W completed when he took out the PPI. Nor is 
it able to say how PPI was sold to him. Mr W says PPI was sold to him in a meeting  as part of his 
credit card application  and that HSBC  recommended it to him. So without evidence  to the contrary, 
Ill accept it was sold in this way. 
Mr W says that the policy wasnt  optional. HSBC  had to make it clear  the PPI was optional and that 
Mr W agreed to take it. Neither partys been able to give us much detail about how the PPI was sold 
to Mr W.  
And I think its understandable  that neither party has any detailed  information about how the PPI was 
sold because the sale took place  over 22 years ago. But because of this Ive not seen enough  to say 
its likely  HSBC did do things  to make  Mr W think the PPI wasnt  optional. Or that he didnt agree to 
take it at the time.
Mr W has also said that he was pressured into taking out the PPI. But Mr W hasnt given much detail  
about what made him feel pressured. And for me to uphold his complaint on this point  I would have to 
find that its more likely  than not that HSBC acted in this way. Having looked at all the available 
information carefully, I simply dont  have compelling  evidence to say that an advisor  put any unfair 
pressure on Mr W.
As HSBC  recommended the PPI to Mr W, it had to check it was right for him. And based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
In saying  the above, Ive noted what Mr W has said about his sick pay benefits. In so far as he was 
entitled to eight  months full sick pay followed by eight months half sick pay. But Ive also noted  that in 
his submissions to HSBC  before referring the complaint  to this service he had said he had three 
months full, followed by three months half sick pay. 
Because of this discrepancy our adjudicator  asked  Mr W why this was. To this he said he wasnt too 
sure at the time when he complained to HSBC   but after speaking to his wife, he recalled  that he 
was entitled to higher  benefits. He also added that given the passage  of time since the sale, he is 
unable to get us any evidence to support  this. 
Ref: DRN99015833This higher  level of sick pay benefits Mr W says he wouldve received is unusually  high, especially for 
the tenure of his employment at the time. Nor is his recollection helped  by the fact he had made a 
different, and lower,  submission to HSBC.  But even  if I were to put that aside, I still think that with the 
higher benefits Mr W wouldve found the policy  useful. Thats because the PPI gave him up to 12 
months cover and his sick pay wouldve given him less than that over the same period. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
it seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said so far, but it doesnt change  what  Im planning to decide. 
what else have I considered
The Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v Paragon  
Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  - who make the rules  for financial 
businesses - have introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses  to follow when theyre  
looking at PPI complaints  that are affected by this court ruling. 
What this means is that if businesses  expected to get a high level of commission from the PPI - more  
than half of what  the consumer paid for the policy - they should have told the consumer about  it. If that 
didnt happen, it might mean  the business didnt treat the consumer fairly. And, in turn the business  
might have to give the consumer  some of that commission back.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements  taken  out 
before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information  Ive seen, Mr Ws credit 
agreement doesnt fit into these dates - and so I dont think HSBC have to refund any of the 
commission he paid on his PPI policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN9901583