K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B and R complain that Allianz  Insurance Plc has declined their commercial  
property insurance  claim for damage  caused by an escape of water.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  leaseholders  of a flat in a block managed by R. R is the policyholder  of 
the property owners  commercial buildings and contents policy. Mr and Mrs B were 
beneficiaries of the policy until their flat was sold. 
In June 2018, whilst some works were being carried out by contractors at the property as a 
result of a water  leak in 2017 and the discovery of dry rot in July 2017,  some moisture was 
discovered between  the slab and the floor screed  in the lounge area. Investigations were 
carried out which included  R arranging for the drains  to be surveyed. An inspection of the 
drain revealed that two drain gulleys  had cracked. These were repaired in mid-July 2018. 
A claim  was submitted to Allianz  on the grounds that the defective drain had allowed  water 
to penetrate the basement flat, as a result of the ground being saturated,  which  had caused 
damage. Allianz appointed loss adjusters  to validate  the claim. 
On visiting the property in late July, the loss adjuster was told by the contractor that the 
property had started to dry out after the drains  were repaired and that itd been engaged  to 
carry out tanking to the walls  and floors and remove the dry rot. The loss adjuster observed 
that moisture was present  to the perimeter  of the floors to each room  and the low level walls.
The loss adjuster recommended a drying  company  be instructed to install  equipment for 
three weeks to see if the damp improved or not. The loss adjuster thought that if it didnt then 
this would prove that the damp hadnt  been  caused by the, now repaired, defective drains. 
The dryers  were installed and moisture readings taken intermittently all of which remained 
constant throughout the three week project. The adjuster  reviewed the drying companys 
report and thought that the continuing  presence  of damp, despite the dryers having run for 
three weeks, indicated  conclusively that the drains were not the cause of the damp.  The loss 
adjuster noted  there was no damp proof  course present and that the room  was below ground 
level. The loss adjuster concluded  that the moisture presence was caused by rising damp 
which had been  able to penetrate the flat because there was no damp  proof course/tanking 
installed. It was decided that the damage  hadnt been caused  by anything covered by the 
policy so the claim  was declined. 
Mr and Mrs B and R complained to Allianz. Allianz  looked into the complaint but didnt think 
itd done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs B then brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt recommend it was upheld as he didnt think 
Allianz had unreasonably  or unfairly  declined the claim. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94640012I have to decide if Allianz unfairly and unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs B and Rs claim. I 
dont think it did, Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a property sustains will be covered  by a property insurance policy.  In order to 
be covered, the damage needs to be caused by one of the perils  (or, events)  listed in the 
policy terms such as fire, theft,  subsidence, flood, escape of water etc. If the damage isnt 
caused by one of the events listed then the insurer doesnt need  to pay out. 
Here it was initially suspected that the high levels  of moisture  discovered in the floor by the 
contractors working in the flat, were caused  by leaking defective drains. Its reasonable to 
think that once  the drains were fixed and the drying programme conducted,  then any 
moisture/damp present  as a consequence  of the leaking  drain would have dried out. But 
unfortunately this didnt  happen. The moisture levels remained constant  without 
improvement - throughout  the duration of the drying  programme  indicating that leaking 
drains, or no leaking drains, the damp present in the flat must have another  cause. 
The loss adjuster noted that the flat was below ground level and that there  was no damp 
proof course  or tanking present. Indeed the contractors were  on site to tank the walls (and it 
was subsequently decided, the floors too). Some form of damp barrier is typically needed in 
subterranean properties in order to protect  them from ground moisture. Here it doesnt 
appear that such protection had ever been  installed.  I note the salt test taken confirmed 
nitrates were  present but no domestic water. So I think it was reasonable for the loss 
adjuster to have  concluded that the property was suffering from rising damp due to a lack of 
any damp protection. 
Unfortunately damage caused by rising damp isnt something thats covered by Rs policy so 
I cant say that Allianz unreasonably declined this claim. And the evidence doesnt  allow  me 
to reasonably conclude that the damp/moisture presence was the result  of water escaping  
from the defective drains as maintained by Mr B.
I appreciate that the contractor working  for Mr B has said that it was a dry summer  and that 
after the drain was fixed  there was no more water  entering the flat but I cant reasonably  
ignore the expert evidence in this complaint   provided by the loss adjuster and drying 
company  that the flat did indeed  remain damp  after the drain  was repaired.
So, with regret for any disappointment this causes Mr and Mrs B and R, Im unable  to uphold  
their complaint against Allianz. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B and 
R to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9464001