K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society placed a block  on his credit card account.
background
Mr L says that he told Nationwide in advance that he intended  to use his credit card to pay 
for a meal  in December  2018. He says that he then tried to use his card again in February 
2019 but the card was declined which was extremely  embarrassing.  Mr L says he was told a 
block had been  placed on the card and that Nationwide  had tried to call him about  it in 
December 2018  which he disputes. Mr L also says that he went  into a branch following 
further problems  with the card and it was again  declined in June 2019.
Nationwide says its not made a mistake and acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions where  it had potential fraud and security concerns.  It accepts it didnt log a 
complaint as it should have and has offered Mr L £25 compensation for that. Nationwide  
says it tried to contact Mr L in December  2018  on the telephone numbers it holds for him and 
that it sent him a text message. It says it removed  the block in February 2019 but a further 
block was applied for a different reason later on. It also says it cant pre-authorise  a 
transaction.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall  Nationwide had dealt 
fairly with it. The investigator  thought Nationwide had acted in line with the account terms 
and conditions by blocking  the account  where  it had fraud concerns. She thought  
Nationwides records led her to conclude that it had tried to contact Mr L about this and gave 
an explanation  to Mr L when he called it in February  2019. The investigator asked Mr L 
about a second visit to a Nationwide branch which was about the second account  block  but 
thought Mr L had been clear that he didnt  wish us to consider that part of his complaint.
Mr L didnt accept that view and says in summary  that he disputes that Nationwide tried to 
contact him in December  2018 and questions why his account should be blocked when he 
told it about the forthcoming transaction.  He also questions  why Nationwide says the block  
was removed but later transactions were  also declined. Mr L says he would like £250 
compensation.
The investigator looked again  at the complaint and thought Nationwides contact notes 
provided evidence  it had tried to contact Mr L and that Nationwide  could not pre-authorise  
transactions. The investigator also explained  that the two account  blocks  were separate and 
that Mr L had said he didnt want the visit to the branch about the second block  looked at.
Mr L maintains that Nationwide ignored  his advance warning of the use of his card and has 
committed a serious breach. He says hes been caused hardship  and disputes that calls 
were made to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr L will be disappointed  by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
I accept that Mr L told Nationwide in advance of the use of his credit card that he intended  to 
use it to pay for a meal. So I appreciate Mr Ls frustration in those circumstances  that 
Ref: DRN91380022although the transaction was allowed, Nationwide then applied a block  on his account. But I 
also accept that Nationwide  has explained that it cant pre-authorise  a transaction and I 
accept that each individual transaction is looked  at for any security concerns.
I am sure Mr L understands that fraud  is a major  problem for banks and building societies. 
And I accept  there are on occasions legitimate transactions  that result  in security measures 
being applied  and that customers are caused  inconvenience by those measures in those 
circumstances.
Im satisfied that is what happened here  that Mr Ls payment triggered a block  being  
applied to his account. Im also satisfied that Nationwide is entitled to take such measures in 
line with the account terms and conditions  which I think Mr L would have agreed to when  the 
account was opened. I should  also explain that I think its for a business to decide what  its 
security measures are and I would not expect Nationwide to explain the exact  reason why it 
placed a block  on Mr Ls account. I think such matters are for a business to decide upon 
when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive a call from Nationwide about the block  in December 
2018. So Ive looked at Nationwides  records  and having done so I can see there  is clear  
reference to calls made to Mr L and a text message that was sent.  So Ive come  to the 
conclusion on balance  that Nationwide did attempt contact about the block.  Ive also listened 
to the call between  the parties in February 2019  and I think  the block  could have been 
removed if Mr L had remained on the call and provided the further security information that 
he was asked by Nationwide  to provide. But I can see that the block  was removed some 
days later in any event.
Mr L says hes still unable  to use his account card. I think that a separate  block  was applied  
for a completely different  reason. But as Mr L has said he didnt want us to look at what  
happened when  he attended a branch about this block then I have come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator, that I cant comment any further on this and no doubt  Mr L will 
need to speak to Nationwide  if he wishes to remove it.
Overall whilst I appreciate Mr Ls frustration with whats happened I dont think  Nationwide  
has acted unfairly or made a mistake  about the main parts of his complaint. I will leave it to 
Mr L if he wishes to accept Nationwides  offer of £25 which remains  open to him. I also think 
that this brings  an end to what we in trying  to sort out this complaint informally can do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9138002