K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  has acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with her claim under a private medical insurance policy.  She wants  matters put 
right.
background
Mrs R had a private medical  insurance  policy with AXA. She needed  treatment but her then 
consultant couldnt continue to treat Mrs R, so she contacted AXA to check it was alright for 
the new consultant to take over. Mrs R said that AXA confirmed that it had an agreement to 
pay in full the costs  of the new consultant, and the treatment continued. But in January 2019, 
two months after Mrs R first contacted AXA about  the change  of consultant, she received an 
invoice for the shortfall of fees owed to the new consultant. Mrs R found  out that the 
consultant had moved onto a fee restricted list and from then on, Mrs R would have to pay 
the difference between the consultants  fees and what AXA would pay.
Mrs R said that she was initially  told AXA would cover her costs and then that it wouldnt. It 
did write off the shortfall claim. She felt that it was clear AXAs staff didnt have a process to 
deal with the situation when a consultant moved onto a fee restricted list, and that the limits 
shouldnt apply to her as an existing patient.
Mrs R complained to AXA. It said that the new consultant had been fully funded  when Mrs R 
moved under his care, but later a decision was taken to limit his fees as the consultant  
wasnt willing to charge as AXA required.  AXA accepted that Mrs R had an unpleasant 
surprise when she received the invoice  and was given conflicting information when she 
called to question  it. It apologised, and agreed to pay for the full costs of further 
consultations or treatment  until February 2020  with the new consultant (the renewal date of 
the policy) before Mrs R needed to pay the shortfall or change her consultant.  AXA also 
offered £250 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused due to its mistakes.
Mrs R complained to us. The investigators view was that while it was fair and reasonable to 
say the costs and treatment under  the new consultant would be paid in full until February  
2020 and then to apply  the terms and conditions of the policy,  she thought the compensation 
paid for the trouble and upset caused wasnt sufficient. Mrs R was going  through  a difficult 
time anyway, and it took time for AXA to resolve  the issue. The investigator  thought  the 
compensation should be increased to £400.
Neither party agreed with the investigators view.  Mrs R thought  her medical fees for the new 
consultant should be paid in full indefinitely, while AXA thought  its offer was fair and 
reasonable. It didnt  accept that it took too long to resolve the situation and noted that it had 
offered Mrs R more towards her costs than it normally did. Mrs R noted that she had been  
asked to pay another shortfall claim, though AXA did deal with it when she called and 
wanted to know  how other  policyholders had been treated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Mrs R feels  that there should 
be a standard  procedure  to deal with policyholders in her position, but this service can only 
deal with individual complaints. This means  I wont deal with all the points Mrs R wants  me 
to deal with.
Ref: DRN94635482The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Under the terms and conditions  of the policy, if a consultant moves  from being fully funded to 
a fee restricted position,  AXA is entitled  to limit the amount it will pay and require the 
policyholder to pay the difference.  This is also standard industry practice.  So if a particular 
consultant wont  agree to an insurers cost schedule, and its the doctors decision, the 
position in which Mrs R found herself will happen.  I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable 
for an insurer to want to control its costs, and the policy permits this.
But we then look at how the insurer responds  when a consultant moves onto the fee 
restricted list. AXA does have a policy for affected existing patients - it agrees to cover the 
full consultation  costs for the next two appointments; this is about six months of cover. AXA 
also offers  to allow the patient to transfer to a fully funded specialist. Its offered more to 
Mrs R to reflect the fact that she wasnt told of the change and her personal position. This is 
fair and reasonable in my view. I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable  to give Mrs R 
plenty of time to transfer to another consultant, despite the risk that doctor  may choose  to 
become fee restricted  in the future, in the circumstances of this case.
But AXA did make mistakes as it accepts. It didnt tell Mrs R when the new consultant  
changed his status. It simply sent her an invoice out of the blue, despite her health. And it 
accepts Mrs R was given  conflicting information  when she called to ask what  was going  on.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. This service  looks  at the trouble and 
upset that the customer suffered, not the actual failing itself.  Mrs R was, and remains,  very 
upset about how she has been treated (for which AXA was at fault),  and has had to contact 
AXA more  than once  to resolve matters  and deal with the shortfall claims. In all the 
circumstances, I think  £250  isnt fair and reasonable compensation for Mrs Rs trouble and 
upset. I think £400  is fair and reasonable. I have borne in mind that AXA has given Mrs R 
extra cover until February  2020,  but its failure to tell her in advance  what  was happening and 
to give the correct information  immediately  wasnt fair or reasonable and caused her 
distress.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  should  
cover Mrs Rs costs  of consultation and treatment  with the new consultant  until the policy  is 
due for renewal, and pay £400 compensation for her trouble and upset. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9463548