K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about notes being retained  by an automated paying-in machine operated 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
Mrs P said that she used an automated machine owned by Barclays, to pay large  amounts 
of cash into. She complained that it had retained £20 notes on a number of occasions. She 
thinks this is a problem  with the machine. Barclays has told her that the notes were 
counterfeit, but she says that it hasnt  shown her any evidence  of that.
Barclays said that it had retained notes because  they were suspected to be counterfeit. It 
said that when  the machine thinks a note is counterfeit, it will be set to one side, and will be 
subject to further manual checks. If it is confirmed  to be counterfeit, then the note will be sent 
to the Bank of England,  who will also carry out checks on the notes. 
If a note is found to be genuine, at any stage in this process, then Barclays  said it can use 
an internal audit process to link the deposited note back  to the transaction  the customer 
made. But Barclays has suggested that isnt usually needed, because it said that the branch 
of Barclays that checks  notes paid into this machine had an excellent  record of spotting  
counterfeit notes.
Barclays said that it couldnt give Mrs P a record of the serial  numbers of the fake notes, 
because she was using  an automated  machine to pay in money.  But if she hadnt  been 
reassured by what it had told her, she could use the local branch to pay money in. Then that 
branch would check notes for her and could  give her information on any fakes that it spotted,  
which she could then confirm with the Bank of England if she wished. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed checked the Bank  of 
Englands website, and what Barclays had said about the process was right.  So he didnt  
think that Barclays had to give Mrs P a note of the serial numbers for the retained notes. He 
didnt think that Barclays had done anything  wrong.
Mrs P didnt agree with that. She wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs P is concerned that she isnt able to follow an audit trail for notes  paid in using an 
automated machine, so that she can confirm  with the Bank of England that the notes were  
fake. Barclays has said that it isnt able to provide this service to Mrs P because shes using  
an automated machine.  
I havent been able to find any rule that says that Barclays has to give Mrs P the serial  
number for a counterfeit note that is retained  by a machine. And I dont think that Barclayss 
response in this case has been  unreasonable. It wont routinely reconcile all the notes it has 
received against  all the transactions  that are done, to find out who has fed any counterfeit 
Ref: DRN94203392note into the machine. It only acts to trace the customer if the note is eventually confirmed as 
genuine. I dont  think thats an unreasonable approach for Barclays to take.  
Barclays has suggested alternative paying  in arrangements that Mrs P might prefer  to use in 
future, including  some  that may be available outside of normal  banking hours. 
I havent been able to identify any mistakes made by Barclays in this case. So, although I 
know that Mrs P will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint  should  be upheld.  
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9420339