K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the Contract  for Differences (CFD)  trading account  he opened 
with IG Markets Limited (IG) on 1 March 2019.  He says the account was promoted to him in 
his home  country,  where such promotion  is unlawful/contrary to regulations. He also says 
the account was inappropriate  for him and was in conflict with the European Securities and 
Markets Authority (ESMA)  rules  on CFD leverage levels for retail clients. He seeks recovery  
of his trading losses. IG disputes the complaint.
background
Account information  provided by IG is mainly as follows:
Mr B applied  for the account on 1 March  2019, the same date as it was granted  and 
activated. A copy of the activation  notice  (email), of the same  date,  has been 
provided to this service  and it confirms Mr B was classified as a non-professional  
client, with full regulatory protection and negative balance protection. IG says trading  
in the account was in its Barrier  and Vanilla Options products (not CFDs).
Mr B first funded  the account on 22 March 2019 and began trading soon thereafter. 
The account  was closed on 11 April 2019.
In the application process,  Mr B confirmed acceptance of the customer agreement 
and risk notices which  were given to him.
In the appropriateness assessment within the process, Mr B confirmed previous 
experience in trading shares, bonds and derivatives (exchange traded and over-the-
counter) frequently  on a managed  basis. IG also provided us with account 
information for a previous IG CFD account he held,  in which  he traded directly, and 
information referencing  other/previous  IG accounts he held. It also says that in 
comparison to its minimum internal appropriateness scoring  threshold  of 40 points,  
Mr B scored 155 points.
Mr Bs primary position is that but for the unlawful promotion, he would not have opened the 
account and would not have incurred the losses that thereafter resulted. IG says it did not 
promote the account in his home  country, did not breach  the regulation (in his home country) 
he has mentioned  and that it was entitled to provide  the account to customers (like him) who 
actively sought it  as opposed  to a customer who was promoted  to.
Mr B also says leverage of 100:1  was available in his account and that, for a retail account, 
this was contrary to the intervention rules from ESMA. IG says Mr Bs allegation in this 
respect is misguided; that, in the context  of the Barrier and Vanilla Options, leverage worked  
distinctly differently from how it works  in CFDs; that for the former leverage  was implied, not 
actual, as it is incorporated at the outset of a trade  within the Options Premium paid; and that 
this also sets the maximum potential loss from the trade  unlike  the effect of leverage in the 
latter (that is, CFDs).  IG says there  was no breach of ESMA in this respect.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She disagreed with IG on the matter  of 
promotion in Mr Bs home country and cited  an online IG advertisement  
available/accessible in his home  country   which had the effect of a promotion. She 
acknowledged that IGs website included a notice which said its accounts were not intended 
for residents of his home country, but she considered that the advertisement  nevertheless 
had the relevant promotional effect.
Ref: DRN98470072Despite her finding on the matter of promotion  and having noted that addressing  any 
associated regulatory  breach (in Mr Bs home country) is beyond this services remit, the 
investigator proceeded to consider whether (or not) the promotion induced  Mr B to open the 
account. She was not persuaded that it did, given  that Mr B had traded CFDs  previously;  
had done so with IG (and another provider);  was aware that IG provided such  an account; 
and actively sought  to open  the account.  
The investigator then considered appropriateness  of the account for Mr B. She noted that 
high risk warnings were given to him and that his previous  CFD trading experience (and 
assessment score) supports the conclusion  that the account was properly assessed to be 
appropriate for him.
Mr B did not accept this outcome and repeated his allegation about a leverage related ESMA 
breach. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I too consider that any alleged  breach of regulations  in Mr Bs home 
country and in relation to the matter of promotion is a regulatory matter that exists beyond  
this services remit  and beyond the remit of this decision. As she said, the relevant 
consideration is whether (or not) there  is evidence  of a promotion  that induced  Mr B to open 
the account and whether (or not) he would not have opened the account but for any such 
promotion.
IG has provided information about  another account held by Mr B in which there was trading 
activity between 2013 and July 2018.  The implication appears to be that he returned  to IG in 
early 2019  to open the account he has presently  complained about. There  is also evidence  
that suggests he has had six other IG accounts linked to him. 
Overall and on balance,  I am persuaded that Mr B was previously familiar with the account  
services and trading  provided by IG; that he applied for the account  in March 2019  on the 
basis of that familiarity and on the basis of his past knowledge and experience  of IGs 
accounts (including the IG account  in which he traded up to around eight months earlier  in 
2018); and that he would  have opened the account regardless of any promotion by IG.
Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis of information from a client  to a firm about whether 
(or not) the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved 
in the service or product  offered by the firm. In this respect, I share the investigators  
conclusions that the account was properly assessed  as appropriate for Mr B. He received 
high risk warnings during  the application process, in the customer  agreement and in the 
activation notice,  so he was properly informed   or, given  his previous trading experience 
and if needed,  he was reminded  about the high risks within  a CFD account.  
Mr Bs previous and frequent trading  experience (in terms of both managed and direct 
trading) also established  that he had the requisite knowledge and experience  to understand 
the workings of and inherent risks within  the account. He would probably have developed a 
notable body of such knowledge and experience, given his trading history. In this context, it 
is arguably unsurprising that his appropriateness assessment score was significantly above 
the threshold.
Ref: DRN98470073I have noted Mr Bs allegation  of a breach, within his account,  of ESMAs rules.  His account 
had the benefit of negative balance protection, which is one of the benefits the rules gave to 
retail clients.  He has highlighted  a 100:1  leverage  provision. ESMAs rules on leverage ratios 
for retail CFD trading stipulate  far less  between 2:1 and 30:1, depending  on the underlying 
instrument/market. However, available evidence suggests that despite the accounts title    
Mr B was not actually  trading CFDs,  he was trading Options.  
I have verified the workings of IGs Barrier and Vanilla Options products. The latter  has the 
standard basic workings of an Options trade  where long positions are based on premium  
payments (depending on size) which define  the maximum  potential  loss in the trade and 
short positions are based on premium receipts (but with potentially unlimited exposure to 
loss). Barrier  Options  are described in IGs website as catering for long positions. Neither 
behaves like a CFD, hence the distinction drawn  by IG with regards to Mr Bs argument 
about leverage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9847007