K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest)  for withdrawing  
their current  account facility without giving them a reason. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs D are long standing  customers of NatWest. 
They held a current  account with an overdraft facility  of more than £7000, which they 
regularly used. 
On 25 April 2018 NatWest  wrote to Mr and Mrs D saying that, following a review, it had 
decided that it could no longer provide them  with banking services. The letter set out that 
their banking services would be withdrawn 60 days from the date of the letter, on or after 25 
June 2018.The letter was sent by Royal Mail. 
Mr and Mrs D did not receive the letter until 15 May 2018. 
Mr and Mrs D contacted  NatWest and requested the account  closure  be delayed. This was 
refused and they submitted a complaint to the business. 
A final response was sent to them, rejecting their complaint  and refusing to give them a 
reason for the decision 
Mr and Mrs D then settled their account  and the closure took place.  
Mr and Mrs D then referred  their complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  and set out her view to the 
parties. This was that the business had not done anything significantly wrong and she would 
not ask it do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs D were not happy with that view and asked  for an ombudsman  to consider the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds surprise  and upset at the businesss decision to withdraw  their 
account, especially  given  that they had been customers for so long. 
I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view that businesses are entitled  to decide who 
they want as their customers,  and they can decide to withdraw services,  including lending, 
so long as they do so in line with the terms and conditions.  
NatWests terms  and conditions require that they give 60 days notice  to close an account. Mr 
and Mrs D do not think that the letter  was posted on 25 April because  it did not arrive until 
much later. I understand  this concern,  but the evidence supports it having  been  sent on time. 
Ref: DRN92922462The copy  letter  which  Mr and Mrs D provided  makes clear that the account would not be 
closed until 25 June  or later. This meets  the 60 days criteria set out in the terms.
Mr and Mrs D want NatWest to give them its reasons for closing the account.  NatWest does 
not have to do this and is free to take a commercial  view on which  accounts  it wants to keep 
open. I am satisfied that NatWest made a decision within its criteria and that it 
communicated that decision in line with its terms. 
I think this is reasonable  and would not ask NatWest to do anything more.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed by this decision, I cannot conclude  
that NatWest has acted improperly. As a result,  I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and do not ask 
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292246