K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in September 2004.  Mr B says Nottingham Building Society (NBS) mis-sold this 
cover to him. 
background
Mr B has already been offered  some money back for part of the commission  NBS got from 
selling him PPI.
However I issued a provisional decision  (PD) in September 2019, comprehensively setting 
out why I thought the complaint about the mis-sale element of the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. The PD is attached and should be read in conjunction with this final decision.
I asked both parties to provide any further submissions or information to me within a month. 
my findings
Both parties  responded.  Mr B sent in quite  a bit more information  whereas NBS said it had 
nothing more to add.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Im very grateful for the time Mr B has taken in responding  to my PD. He began  by making a 
number of points  demonstrating how he feels his complaint hasnt been properly understood. 
So Id like to assure  Mr B that upon issuing my PD I was aware of all the material facts and 
that I fully understood the points being made by him. Clearly,  I wasnt able to agree with 
many of his points, but I understood  them nevertheless.  And having  received his responses 
to my PD, Ive read them with great care.
So I return to Mr Bs original points of complaint, the first of which was that he was pressured 
into taking the PPI out. 
Whether described as a mailshot (as I had described the method of sale in my PD) or 
another form of postal  application is, in my view, largely irrelevant. I simply could find no 
evidence whatsoever  of Mr B being pressured  into buying the PPI but I found substantial  
evidence to the contrary. 
That evidence shows Mr B is much  more likely to have engaged  and participated in the PPI 
sale. We have, for example, a signed  application form from him specifically asking to have 
PPI with his mortgage.  Significantly, because his mortgage was already in place when he 
decided to apply  for the PPI, I think it would have  been obvious  that he didnt need to buy 
the policy if he didnt  want to. 
Mr B makes  the point  that he didnt originally ask for PPI on his mortgage application form 
and that NBS was wrong to send him an invitation  to apply for it after it had received that 
form. Opinions might differ in this type of commercial activity  but it certainly doesnt, in my 
view, represent  a pressured  PPI sale. NBS was offering an incentivised  PPI scheme at the 
time whereby 3 months  was provided for free. Following  up that free offer doesnt constitute 
Ref: DRN95531212being pressured, particularly when set against the clear and unambiguous written consent  
Mr B gave when he decided to take the policy out. 
If Mr B hadnt wanted PPI with his mortgage,  he neednt  have  signed  the form. But he 
amended the value  of the cover he wanted  to have  to suit his preferences,  signed  the form 
and returned it to NBS.  As a postal sale, this would have been done  independently by Mr B, 
in his own time and with no input or involvement  from anyone at NBS.  
My finding  on this, as it was in my PD, is that Mr B asked for and agreed to the PPI because  
it was something he wanted  to have. Thats what the evidence  shows.
We then move on to the health issues which I outlined  in detail in my PD. 
Again, I accept these  would have been worrying issues for Mr B to deal with at the time and I 
view them compassionately.  I also accept NBS might have done more to highlight medical 
issues in the overall  process. Its also important to say that I said in my PD that the medical 
issue raised in this was indeed  a pre-existing condition  as defined in the policy  rules. 
However those rules then go onto say that the condition could be claimed for provided it 
didnt reoccur within 12 months of taking the cover out.
The condition in question  isnt trivial and I know it would be advisable to carefully  monitor as 
one grows older. But the circumstances of the original diagnosis  and treatment pre-dated  the 
PPI sale by around 10 years. 
The evidence shows Mr B wanted  this PPI policy and although  he did have  a pre-existing 
condition, the policy rules werent  particularly onerous for Mr B. After 12 months  without 
reoccurrence he would have been eligible to claim for the condition  in question. Given the 
sale date was already  10 years  after the diagnoses and original treatment  of his condition  I 
think he would have  come  to the conclusion that the policy rules werent onerous to his 
situation. With that in mind  and considering all the other things the PPI covered in addition 
 I think the policy was of use to Mr B. I think he probably did too. 
I therefore dont  think Mr B agreeing to take the PPI out would have changed even  if NBS 
could have made things clearer for him. 
Mr B makes  a number of further, generalised points about what  he considers to be a lack of 
information provided about the PPI cover. He puts these forward as reasons why the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Im afraid  I dont  agree  with any of them.
I note, for example, Mr B was written  to in December 2004.  That letter strongly  suggests  to 
me that the overall disclosure of information and documents about the PPI was probably 
quite good. It confirmed he had asked for the PPI and it invited him to contact the insurer  if 
there was anything he wasnt sure about. It said if, after reading the documents,  you decide 
Mortgage Payment  Protection does not meet your needs, simply return the policy booklet 
and your schedule  of benefits  to us at the above  address  within 30 days  of the start date and 
cover will be cancelled.  
This wasnt an advised sale. NBSs responsibility  was therefore limited  to providing 
information to Mr B which I think broadly it did. So the points he makes about subsequent 
changes to his employment contract some 6 years  after the policy was taken out dont affect 
the issue of whether the PPI was mis-sold  back in 2004. NBS didnt have an ongoing or 
Ref: DRN95531213unlimited responsibility to check up on Mr Bs circumstances in the years that followed the 
sale. As I said in my PD, that was for him to do.
I understand Mr B feels strongly about all these points. But breaking them  down, I think he 
agreed to the policy. The pre-existing condition he had was very real and no doubt an 
important issue  but it pre-dated the sale by some 10 years. I accept Mr B may have had 
some protection from sickness  through  his job and I dealt thoroughly with these aspects in 
my PD.
The PPI wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. And I dont require Nottingham Building Society to pay any 
compensation for the alleged mis-sale. 
If it hasnt  already done so, Nottingham Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr B the 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95531214copy  provisional  decision
Ive considered all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our adjudicator. 
I am considering not upholding the complaint. 
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 2 October 2019.  But unless  the information  
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. 
Our final decisions  are published and so that the consumer cant be identified,  Ill call him Mr B.
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 
September 2004. Mr B says Nottingham Building Society (NBS)  mis-sold  this cover to him.
background
I see that Mr B has already been offered some money back for part of the commission NBS got from 
selling him PPI.
However, one of our adjudicators looked at this case and said the complaint about the actual mis-sale 
element should also be upheld. They  wrote to NBS with this view but it didnt  agree with this. Its 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Id like to begin by saying that I certainly  dont doubt that Mr B honestly and genuinely  feels now that 
he was mis-sold this policy. However, Im afraid what Ive seen doesnt support that. For example,  Mr 
Bs main points of complaint are that he was pressured by way of a postal / mail-shot 
correspondence into buying PPI cover that he didnt really want. 
Hes also unhappy  about the cost of the PPI not being made clear  enough  and there being  no 
alternatives put forward by NBS at the time of the sale. And hes unhappy  that having taken the policy  
out, changes to his work circumstances  several years later werent  picked up by NBS. By this he 
means changes to his employment contract could have potentially made the PPI useless to him and 
unable to claim  on it.
However, I think theres substantial  evidence to the contrary.  I think  theres  solid evidence  available to 
show that Mr B actually discussed the PPI whilst taking his mortgage out and also in the weeks after 
that.
I say this because I was sent a document that was headed PROTECTING YOUR MORTGAGE 
PAYMENTS. I think  would  have formed part of the papers Mr B was given  at the time of the 
mortgage discussion during August 2004. It said You  have asked us to arrange Mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance for you. The monthly benefit will be 1,299.00 for a monthly premium of £75.02 
. The first three months premiums are free so your first direct debit payment will be due in the 
month after that.
NBS says it was normal practice  to then follow this type of communication up with a PPI application 
form being  sent out to the consumer  based  on discussions already having  taken place. Also, because  
Ref: DRN95531215we know in this case the first three months of the PPI was free (as an incentive) this was indeed 
done. We know this because I was sent a copy of such an application form.  It was headed  
MORTGAGE PAYMENT  PROTECTION which  I think  would have enabled Mr B to understand what  
the form was about. 
Much of the data on that form was pre-printed  and it looks to me to have been completed several 
weeks after Mr Bs mortgage was already  in place, as described by NBS as its normal practice. I think 
he would have been expecting  the form which he signed and dated  on 29 November  2004.  This 
would seem to fit in with the 3 month free period Ive described above.  
I also note on the form that the initial  pre-printed monthly benefit to be paid (in the event of a claim) 
was indeed set at £1,299.  But this was changed in that a £1,000 monthly benefit  was handwritten in 
as a replacement. To me this further and strongly suggests  an ongoing dialog  took place  between  the 
parties about the amount  of benefit being sought  by Mr B. I think  he reassessed his financial and 
insurance requirements and decided  to lower the coverage of the PPI policy, thus saving him money 
on the monthly premiums.
So in short, I believe Mr B engaged and participated in the PPI sale. And because  we have a signed 
application form from him I think he properly  consented to it. As his mortgage was already in place  I 
think it would have been obvious that he didnt  need to buy the policy  if he didnt want to and I cant 
agree that he felt unfairly pressured into taking the policy out. 
My finding on this is that he asked for and agreed to the PPI.
Was Mr B given enough  information?
NBS says it didnt provide and advised sale and Ive seen none of the paperwork typically associated 
with advised sales, such as an assessment  of his insurance needs. So I think this was a non-advised 
sale where NBSs duty was limited to providing Mr B with enough information for him to make an 
informed choice about what he wanted to do.
Clearly, hes saying this didnt happen.  But as Ive described, hed already been quoted a price for the 
PPI cover and we know he re-configured  how much he wanted to pay. So whilst  Im sure Mr B will be 
trying his best to remember the events of 15 years ago, the allegation  that the costs werent made  
clear doesnt  seem to me to be borne out.
Neither were there  any responsibilities on NBS to discuss alternative types of PPI cover  with Mr B. 
And the point  he makes about him changing his work  contract in 2010 has no bearing  in my view  
on this sale. NBS didnt have an ongoing responsibility to Mr B to monitor his PPI policy  in the years 
after he bought it. Im afraid that was for him to do.
I also think  Mr B would have been sent or given something explaining the rules of the cover. He 
doesnt think  he was told enough but the insurer was a third party company and major insurer in the 
market and I see no reason why this company would  have failed to properly set up a policy he had 
asked to have by way of a signed application. I think it would have been likely for him to receive the 
relevant information in addition to the discussions we know he had at the mortgage interview  stage
Mr Bs health
This brings us to the reason our adjudicator  thought the complaint should be upheld.  
The adjudicator noted that Mr B had mentioned about  a pre-existing medical  condition he had when 
he took out the policy.  In no way do I wish to imply  this wasnt an important issue for Mr B and Im 
sure when the condition was first diagnosed it would have been an uncertain and distressing time.
However, the condition was treated  I understand successfully  in 1994,  some 10 years before this 
PPI sale.  Looking  at the policy rules I agree this was a pre-existing condition as defined by the 
documentation we have. But importantly,  it did not prevent a successful claim  on the policy  because 
Ref: DRN95531216only claims occurring within 12 months of the start date were excluded  if they were caused by a pre-
existing condition. 
Given his illness was 10 years before the sale, I dont think  this would  have changed what Mr B went 
on to do. I think he would have still bought the policy. I think the evidence is strong that Mr B wanted  
this type of protection and he was taking on a mortgage  that was secured  against his home. The 
consequences of him not being able to keep up payments could  have been serious and I think  thats 
why he wanted the PPI for protection.
In all other aspects he was eligible for the cover and not caught by the major  exclusions we tend to 
see. The cost seems broadly  comparable  with similar types  of PPI that Ive seen from that time.  
I note what Mr B says about  having protection already with his job. Hes said his sick pay lasted for 
over 12 months. In my experience that would be very generous and similar only to a very small  group 
of mainly public sector roles. But as I say, this was a non-advised sale and the decision to have the 
cover was for Mr B to make.
On this point  therefore, my finding is that its much more likely that Mr B was given the information he 
needed to make an informed choice and even if I accept  more or better information could  have been  
supplied to him, it doesnt change what I think.
Im sorry about these findings because I can fully understand Mr B will be disappointed  with them. But 
the evidence clearly points to him applying for the PPI and I think the information  disclosure  he got 
was likely  to have  been  fairly good.
Whilst I have  no doubt he suffered a significant illness  10 years prior to the sale, I dont think  this 
affects anything for the reasons Ive set out above.
my provisional  decision
All this means Im currently  not intending  to uphold  Mr Bs complaint or direct Nottingham Building 
Society to pay him any more  compensation.
I understand hes already  been offered  some money in respect of the commission element I 
mentioned at the beginning.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 2 
October 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN9553121