K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) didnt complete proper checks  to make sure the 
loan he applied for was affordable and it failed to give him important information about the 
loan. 
background
Mr E took out a 36-month instalment loan from ELL on 27 October  2015.  It was for £2,500 
and the monthly  repayments were £186.40.  The total repayable was £4210.40. I understand 
the loan remains  outstanding.
Mr E said ELL didnt carry out sufficient checks before lending  to him. It didnt adequately 
explain the terms of the loan;  how the continuous payment authority would work or how to 
complain. And when  he couldnt make his repayments it didnt deal with him sympathetically.
ELL says it looked at Mr Es income, estimated  his expenditure and reviewed  his existing 
credit commitments  on his credit file. It asked for copies of Mr Es bank statements and 
payslips. These checks showed  the loan was affordable for Mr E. It said the loan agreement 
Mr E signed  clearly set out the terms of the loan and a continuous payment authority was 
never set up on his account.  Its complaints  process  is set out on its website, and it could find 
no evidence Mr E had notified it that he was having financial difficulties. 
Mr E brought his complaint to this service, saying  he remained unhappy with how the loan 
was sold and the checks that were  done.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should  not have been given.  He said from the information 
ELL gathered it should have seen that Mr E was having  problems  managing his money, as 
hed spent a significant amount on gambling in the months prior to his loan application. So 
there was a risk the loan was not sustainably affordable for Mr E.
ELL disagreed saying  the gambling transactions dont  appear to be greater than Mr Es 
disposable income and based  on its calculations he would have been left with over £500 
each month. So the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints  is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules  and regulations when ELL lent to Mr E required  it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or an affordability 
check.
The checks  also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think  about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause any difficulties  or adverse consequences for Mr E. In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for ELL to simply think about the likelihood  of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E.
Ref: DRN92417752Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent  upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
-the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to
meet higher  repayments from a particular  level of income);
-the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr E. So to reach my conclusion I have considered  the following questions:
-did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate  checks when assessing Mr Es 
loan applications  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
-if not, what would  reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown? 
-did ELL make a fair lending decision?
-did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information  from Mr E before it approved the loan.  It asked for
details of his income,  how many  dependents he had, copies of payslips and bank 
statements. It estimated his living costs using a percentage  of his income. It also checked 
Mr Es credit  file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit  history.  
And finally it asked about the purpose  of the loan which was to repay  Mr Es wifes credit  
card and for home improvements. From these checks combined  ELL concluded Mr E had 
enough monthly disposable  income to afford to repay the loan.
Im not wholly persuaded the checks were  proportionate. But I wont  comment  further on this 
as even based on the information it gathered, I dont think  ELL made  a fair lending decision.  
As the adjudicator said, the bank  statements showed frequent gambling  transactions, 
suggesting Mr E was having problems managing  his money. Further  supporting this, the 
statements also showed he was using a revolving line of credit to support  his current  
account and was borrowing from other  short-term  high cost lenders - suggesting he was 
borrowing to fund his gambling.  
Ref: DRN92417753ELL argues that Mr Es bank statements  showed  £245 of gambling transactions  in 
September 2015 and £240 in October 2015 leaving him with considerable disposable 
income. But I dont  think  this is a fair analysis. From what I have seen the bank statements it 
relied on covered  just the periods 22 September 2015 to 1 October 2015 and 19 to 23 
October 2015. 
From this I would draw two conclusions   the gambling transactions  ELL has identified  need 
to be at the very least totalled, rather than split by calendar month, for a truer picture of how 
much Mr E was spending on gambling in a month.  Arguably, as there are no transactions  
outside the dates I set out above, I think its likely  the bank statements  ELL received are not 
complete so even  then Mr Es monthly  spend on gambling is likely to be understated. 
But even without investigating this further, and just using the information ELL had, I think the 
percentage of income that Mr E was spending  on gambling was such that ELL ought to have 
realised it was unlikely  Mr E would be able to repay  his loan sustainably  even if it seemed 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis. And this was what ELL needed to check to meet its 
regulatory obligations as CONC 5.3.1(G) stated: 
1. In making the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
 
So, in summary,  I dont think ELL made  a fair lending decision using the information it had 
gathered when it gave Mr E his loan. He went on to have problems making his repayments 
within six months of the loan starting. It follows I think he has lost out as result  of ELLs 
decision.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in some other way?
I dont find that it did, Ill explain why. Mr E says ELL failed to provide him with information on 
the repayment terms of his loan. The loan was sold on a call and ELL has no recording of 
that call, so I cant know what was said during the sale. But I can see from the loan 
agreement Mr E signed that the monthly  repayment, the loan term and total cost for credit 
were set out clearly, alongside the APR and the interest rate. He says he wasnt told how to 
complain but ELLs complaints process is set out on its website, and I cant  see any 
evidence that Mr E faced  any barriers  when he raised his complaint.
Mr E also said that ELL did not treat him sympathetically  when he experienced
difficulties repaying  his loan. ELLs records show it tried to contact him many times but Mr E 
frequently didnt  respond. And Ive found no evidence he notified ELL that he was having 
financial difficulties, rather when he did make  contact  he said was out of the UK but would 
bring his account  up to date on his return.  
However, as Ive said I dont that Mr E should  have been provided with the loan, so ELL 
should put things right for him. 
Putting things  right
Ref: DRN92417754I think its fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the capital that he borrowed,  because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt  have 
been provided to him. 
It seems  ELL has sold the outstanding debt. If this is the case  it should  buy it back  if it is able 
to do so and then take the following steps.  If ELL is not able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the loan and treat all the payments Mr E 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Es loan account results  in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest  calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then ELL should 
work to agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Mr E, bearing in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to the
loan, once the capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Es complaint. Everyday Lending  Limited must  put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9241775