K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr M say they didnt receive  the £275  cashback they were expecting upon  
completion of their Skipton Building Society buy-to-let mortgage, and the conveyancers took 
too long leading to them paying extra  interest  with their previous lender.
background
A mortgage broker submitted this application to Skipton on 17 December 2018, and the 
product selected  was code R0455. As the property  was down-valued Mrs and Mr M were no 
longer eligible for the product that had been selected, so the broker wrote to Skipton and 
said the new product  was code R0486.
A mortgage offer was issued  on 3 January 2019,  and a mortgage completed on 
12 February 2019.
Shortly after completion Mrs M phoned  Skipton to enquire about the cashback she was 
expecting to receive. She was told it would automatically be sent out to her. When nothing 
was received Mrs M called back again.  Eventually Skipton informed Mrs and Mr M that no 
cashback was due on the product selected. Unhappy  with this Mrs and Mr M made a 
complaint, and as part of that they also said the conveyancing had taken  too long which 
meant theyd incurred extra interest  charges  with their previous lender.
Skipton apologised for any confusion and offered £50 compensation. Mrs and Mr M referred 
the matter to us and our investigator  thought that was fair. He said the products offered 
either free conveyancing or cashback, but not both and as the mortgage had been  
introduced by the broker it was their responsibility to ensure the product was right.  He also 
said any complaint  Mrs and Mr M had about the conveyancing would need to be raised with 
the conveyancer  directly.  Mrs and Mr M didnt agree with our investigator  and so the case  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mrs and Mr M wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
The confusion here seems to have  come about due to Mrs and Mr M (and/or their broker)  
not realising there were  two versions  of the fixed rate they were interested  in. Both versions 
offered a free basic valuation, but the difference was one offered £275 cashback  and the 
other offered free conveyancing. There was never the option to have the cashback and the 
free conveyancing. Thats fairly standard and something Id expect a mortgage broker  to be 
aware of and have  noticed. 
Whilst Mrs and Mr M say Skiptons website was confusing, this complaint doesnt turn on 
that as this was a mortgage introduced following an advised service from a mortgage broker.  
So it was up to the mortgage broker to not only to recommend  the most suitable  product for 
Mrs and Mr M, but to ensure she fully explained that product to them including the option to 
either have  cashback  or free conveyancing (not both). So what  Mrs and Mr M may have 
understood from the general Skipton website is irrelevant as all the information about  the 
Ref: DRN99907332product, including the option of having either  cashback or free conveyancing, should have 
been explained to them by their mortgage broker.
Mrs and Mr M have  provided us with a screenshot of one version of the product. This 
screenshot says This product may be portable. £275 cashback  following completion. 
Includes a free standard valuation. Unfortunately Mrs and Mr M havent  provided us with a 
screenshot of the other version of the product, and Skipton is unable to retrieve  it (the 
product is now withdrawn). However Im satisfied there would have  been  a second version 
and that would have said something along  the lines of This product may be portable. Free 
standard legal  fees for remortgages.  Includes a free standard valuation.
In addition the mortgage offer, which sets out the formal contract the parties were  entering 
into, had a section entitled incentives. Within that section there are two incentives listed; 
legal costs which explains that Skipton will pay the standard legal costs involved in the 
remortgage, and valuation  fee refund which explains Skipton will cover the cost of a 
standard valuation  fee. Had there  been any cashback due then this would have been 
detailed within this section.
If Mrs and Mr M feel their mortgage broker didnt act appropriately and explain  this to them 
then thats a matter  theyd  need  to raise  with the broker themselves. From looking at the 
addresses given  it appears  that the broker was based in the family run estate  agency  that 
Mrs M worked  for so I havent asked our investigator  to provide her contact information to 
Mrs and Mr M as I normally would.  However  if Mrs and Mr M would like some  further 
information theyre free to contact our investigator  for that.
Finally Mrs and Mr M have complained  about how long the conveyancers took. As Skipton 
and our investigator have  already explained, thats a matter  Mrs and Mr M will need  to raise 
directly with the conveyancers themselves. Responsibility for that doesnt  lie with Skipton as 
the conveyancers are a separate company.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990733