K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms C says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a card in 2001 it was sold by phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Ms C aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  
it to her card. I dont know  for certain  what was said at the time the policy  was sold. But the 
application form Ms C completed when  she took the card gave an option  to take PPI and at 
the time Ms C chose not to have it. The PPI policy was then taken several months after 
Ms C applied for the credit so I think she would have  known she had a choice in taking  the 
policy and chose to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Ms C has told us she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer, she had some 
savings, and she could  have relied on family to help her make the repayments if she wasnt  
able to. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to Ms Cs sick pay and for longer than 
she would  have received full pay, it would also have allowed Ms C to keep her savings in 
place to be used  towards  other essential  expenses. And while  Ms Cs family would have 
wanted to help, their ability to do so would have been dependent  on their circumstances at 
the time,  which could  have changed.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN93255962my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9325596