K820x#14complaint
Mr O, on behalf of H, a Limited company, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold his 
mobile phone insurance.  He also isnt happy about the way his claim was handled.
Any references to Allianz include its agents.
background
Mr O complains that when he purchased his policy, he wasnt told a £100 policy excess  
would apply or that any replacement phones would be refurbished.  He also says he didnt 
receive the policy documents so he wasnt aware  Allianz was the insurer.
In June 2018, Mr O lost his mobile  phone so he raised a claim for a replacement.  During the 
claims call he says he was informed of the £100 excess which  he says he reluctantly 
accepted. But he made a complaint when  he received a refurbished phone  as that wasnt  
what he expected.  He thought he was going to get a brand new phone.
Mr O has said he wouldnt have taken out the policy or raised a claim - if hed been made 
aware of the above policy limitations.  Hes also said he shouldve been  warned he would get 
a refurbished phone during the claims call.
Hes also told our service  that he believes the replacement phone  is faulty.  But as this 
concern doesnt  appear to have been raised with Allianz  I wont  address it here. If Mr O 
would like to complain about this issue, Allianz would first need to be given the opportunity  to 
consider it.
Allianz didnt accept the policy had been mis-sold. They said the policy  document explains 
that they apply  an excess  and replacement  phones are refurbished.  This document  was sent 
to him shortly after the sale.
Our investigator also didnt agree the policy was mis-sold. She was satisfied Allianz  sent the 
policy document to Mr O and she felt it contained  all the information  he needed. She also 
disagreed that Allianz shouldve told Mr O that he would receive  a refurbished phone  when 
he raised the claim.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigator  so the complaint has now been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
did Allianz mis-sell the policy?
Mr O was sold the insurance policy in a phone shop by Allianzs agent. Mr O says that he 
was told it was a comprehensive  insurance  package and hed get a new phone  if his was 
lost or damaged.  Allianz  says its agents  are trained to inform  customers about the policy,  
including the aspects of the policy Mr O was unhappy with. There  are no notes from the sale, 
so Ive no documentary  evidence to support what either party  says happened.
Ref: DRN95637952However, Ive seen evidence that Mr O was sent a welcome pack  containing the policy  
document the day after the policy was sold. As this document  provides information  about the 
excess and replacement phones  Im satisfied Allianz did enough  to make him aware of 
these terms. This document also makes it clear  that Allianz is the insurer. 
Im aware Mr O has changed the correspondence  address since taking out the policy but Ive 
been provided with evidence  showing the original pack was sent to the correct address. 
Mr O has said Allianz  should provide evidence it was actually  received but there is no 
requirement for them to do so. I also appreciate  there may have been problems with the post 
but this isnt something Allianz is responsible for.
Mr O has said he was deprived of his cancellation  rights as he didnt  receive the policy  
document. But when he didnt receive the pack   I think it wouldve been reasonable for him 
to have requested  a further copy.
In light of this, Im satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold.
did Allianz handle  the claim fairly?
Under the relevant rules  and industry  guidelines,  URV  was required to consider Mr Os claim 
promptly and fairly.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Important things  you need to know
Any replacement will be from refurbished  stock that has been  tested  and is fully 
functional. 
In relation to the excess it says:
if You make a successful claim  You will need to pay an Excess.
It also says:
Excess
You will be charged an Excess  for each successful  claim. The amount of the Excess 
You will pay depends on the banding of Your Mobile  Phone  or Connected Device on 
the date a successful claim is accepted.
A website  link is provided in the policy document to determine the excess amount. And 
Allianz has re-generated a copy of the covering  letter sent with the welcome  pack  confirming 
the excess is £100.
Im therefore  satisfied Allianz  acted fairly  by providing a refurbished mobile phone and 
applying a £100 excess.
Allianz highlighted the excess to Mr O during the claims call as this needed  to be added  to 
his bill before they could  settle his claim. They didnt need to say hed be sent a refurbished  
phone as this is stated in the policy document. But I would  reasonably  have expected them  
to have accurately  answered any questions they were  asked  about  this term.
Ref: DRN95637953In light of the above, Im also satisfied Allianz handled the claim fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O, on behalf of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 14 September  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9563795