K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 to
protect a mortgage. Mrs B says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her and the late Mr B the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  There is limited  information available  from the
time the PPI was sold, but this isnt surprising considering the time thats passed, and that
businesses arent  required to keep this type of information indefinitely.  From  the information
that is available I dont have enough  to say Santander didnt make it clear  that the policy was 
optional, or that Mr and Mrs B didnt choose to have it.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. Mrs B has told us she would  have been entitled to generous sick pay when  
they applied for the PPI, and that both Mr and Mrs B also had savings, so they didnt need 
the policy. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay, and for longer 
than she would have  received full pay. The policy would also have protected Mr and Mrs Bs 
savings so they could be used towards any other expenses  they may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time they werent affected
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Santander has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Santander didnt  
tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN93964642my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9396464