K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Markel International Insurance Company Limited  has stopped  covering  
a claim made under  a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy he benefitted from. Hes also 
unhappy with the service  he received  and that other claims werent covered under the LEI 
policy.
All and any references  to Markel in this decision include its administrator and claims 
handlers. 
background
Mr M made a claim on the LEI policy in mid-2015 to cover the costs of legal action being 
brought against his neighbour for damage  caused  to Mr Ms property  from fires coming  from 
his neighbours land.  He also said his neighbour carried out unauthorised works  which  
resulted in mud and silt being deposited  into the burn that ran downstream from his 
neighbours property into a micro hydro scheme (the equipment) that was owned by Mr M, 
causing damage.
Markel appointed a law firm to represent Mr M in that action (the law firm). The law firm 
instructed a barrister  to advise on the prospects of Mr M succeeding in those claims. In an 
opinion dated  March 2016 the barrister advised  that the prospects of Mr M succeeding in a 
claim for property nuisance as a result of the damage caused to the equipment (the 
nuisance claim) were greater than 51%. However,  he advised  that the prospects of Mr M 
succeeding in the fire damage  claim werent above  50% and the legal  costs  would be 
disproportionate to the amount in dispute.
In light of the barristers  advice Markel  agreed  to continue funding  the nuisance claim. But as 
he didnt have reasonable prospects of success of succeeding in the other claim, it declined  
to cover the costs of pursuing that claim going  forwards. 
Mr M also said his neighbour had made  online comments about him to try and affect a 
distillery application  hed made  as well as making  further malicious complaints designed to 
damage his business.  Markel declined to cover  those claims as it said the LEI policy didnt 
provide cover for such disputes.  
In May 2017  Markel withdrew  funding under the policy  to cover the nuisance claim. It said 
the policy excluded  cover for any dispute arising  from or related to seepage, pollution  or 
contamination of any kind. 
Mr M was very unhappy with that decision. He says its unfair for Markel to apply the 
exclusion it has. He also says Markel wouldve  been  aware  towards the start of his claim 
about how (he says) the equipment was damaged. So if the nuisance claim wasnt  covered, 
he shouldve  been told much sooner 
Markel says that it discovered the nuisance claim related to silt pollution from the 
neighbouring property  and so excluded it under the policy  when the case  was assigned 
to a new claims handler and a full file review was undertaken. It says, on review, its claims 
handlers were right to withdraw cover when  they did. 
Ref: DRN93890602Mr M didnt  agree so complained to us. Our investigator didnt  uphold  his complaint. Mr M 
didnt accept that so his complaint has been passed  to me to consider everything  afresh  and 
to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
Before I explain why I want to assure Mr M that although I havent addressed each point  hes 
made, Ive taken on board all of his comments. And although Mr M has asked  to speak with 
the ombudsman  deciding his complaint, I dont think thats necessary. Mr M has clearly  
articulated the reasons why he doesnt think Markel  has treated him fairly and I have all of 
the information I need to decide this particular  complaint without asking for anything  else.  
Under the policy Markel  is entitled  to appoint  a law firm to assess  the merits of Mr M 
succeeding in his claim. And then represent  him in that action, if Mr M had more chance  of 
winning that case than not - subject to the remaining  policy  terms.
I know Mr M isnt happy about the way his case was conducted by the law firm appointed by 
Markel to represent him. But this service  cant consider complaints about the general legal 
advice or service given  by a firm of solicitors because theyre  not under Markels control. 
They are independent professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures. So, 
I dont have the power to look at things like whether the amount of work they did justified the 
cost estimates it gave to Markel.
This service can only consider whether Markel  has done anything wrong in the way it 
handled the LEI claim. That does  include  whether  the legal  advice given to Mr M was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that Markel shouldve reasonably 
questioned it. Im satisfied  thats  not the case here.  
This service can also consider whether Markel  appointed a suitably qualified  law firm to 
represent Mr M under the policy. Im satisfied  that the law firm did have litigation experience 
and the solicitor who had conduct  of Mr Ms case had the necessary experience  to represent 
Mr M in the type of claim  Mr M was pursuing.   
Ive also considered whether anything Markel did delayed Mr Ms claim  being  progressed. 
And I dont  think it did. From what Ive seen  Markel  responded  reasonably promptly  to 
correspondence sent from the law firm requesting it to authorise various  increases  in costs 
reserves. And its not unusual for LEI providers to authorise incremental costs increases to 
cover each of the next steps to be taken on a case, rather  than agreeing  a higher estimate  at 
the start.  
It also appears that when  Mr M contacted Markel to raise concerns about  the way in which 
the case was being  progressed by the law firm, it made Mr M aware of the law firms 
complaints process.  When  Mr M said he didnt  want to make a formal  complaint Markel said 
it would  follow up with the instructed solicitor directly. This is what I would expect it to do and 
I can see it did contact the law firm promptly after that.
the nuisance claim:
Ref: DRN93890603The LEI policy can provide  legal cover for property disputes. It covers Mr M against legal 
expenses incurred in the pursuit of a claim for negligence, nuisance  or any wrongful act of 
omission to property. However,  some property disputes are excluded  including any dispute 
arising from or related to seepage, pollution or contamination  of any kind. 
I dont think Markel has unfairly or unreasonably applied  that exclusion in this case because 
it did so on reliance of the information  it received from the law firm it appointed to represent 
him. 
Although the silt may have ended up in the burn as a result of Mr Ms neighbours 
unauthorised actions, I think theres good  evidence to suggest  that this resulted in the burn 
becoming polluted,  causing damage to the equipment. For example:
 The notice drafted by the law firm which was to be sent to Mr Ms neighbour dated 
March 2017 set out Mr Ms intention to apply for a summary  application  under the 
Environmental Protection Act 1990  unless  the neighbour stopped the statutory 
nuisance by taking  certain prescribed measures. The nature of the nuisance is said 
to be sedimentary pollution of the burn. 
When the environmental protection agency visited the neighbours property in 2014  it 
concluded that the discharge of silt resulted in pollution to the burn in breach of 
Water Environment Regulations. 
The environmental protection agency has more recently confirmed that Mr Ms 
neighbour was considered by it to be in breach of rule 21 of the General Binding 
Rules relating to the discharge of water  run-off  via a surface water drainage system 
to the water environment as a result of rural land activities and water must be 
discharged in a way which minimises the risk of pollution to any burn  And in a 
letter dated  June  2018 its confirmed that it had issued advice to the neighbour to 
install mitigation measures. As a result a series of silt traps were put in place and 
older traps were repaired. It said it would assist  with minimising the impact  of 
discharges to the water  environment  going  forwards. 
The barristers opinion  on prospects dated March 2016 says Mr M alleges that the 
works carried out by Mr Ms neighbour caused  excessive silt pollution  of the bum 
which flows from their land and onwards to (Mr Ms) land and that this had caused 
damage to the equipment.
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Mr M disputes the nuisance claim 
relates to pollution based on the traditional meaning;  he says its a claim arising  out of his 
neighbours failure to get planning permission before doing certain works to his land. The 
expert who was instructed  by the law firm has also said that the silting  was caused  by major 
upstream unauthorised excavation and earth moving works being carried out by the 
neighbour. But Ive seen  emails from Mr M to the expert dated  November 2015  saying hell 
be referring the matter  of silt pollution to the environmental protection  agency.  And in emails 
to the law firm also from November 2015  Mr M says that hes worried about the distillery 
application because  of the silt pollution in the burn. 
I can understand why Mr M is very unhappy that despite having  been advised that he had 
more chance of winning the nuisance  claim than not, Markel decided to cease funding.  And I 
appreciate that Markel didnt apply the exclusion at the outset and only applied  it over two 
years after Mr M made the claim under  the policy. But ultimately,  the policy excluded cover 
Ref: DRN93890604for property  damage  caused by any dispute  arising  from or related to seepage, pollution or 
contamination of any kind. So the nuisance claim shouldnt have been  covered once that 
became apparent soon after he made  a claim under the policy.
Markel accepts it made a mistake and this shouldve come to light much  earlier. Ive 
considered the impact  this has had on Mr M. Hes clearly very disappointed by cover being 
withdrawn at a point when he was close to issuing legal proceedings against the neighbour  
and hed had a reasonable expectation that the costs of pursuing that claim would be 
covered going  into that litigation. And because of the stage he was at in his case when cover  
was withdrawn, its fair to assume  that the level of disappointment is likely to be higher than 
the disappointment  he wouldve felt if hed been told shortly after he claimed on the policy  
that any such claim was excluded. 
However, he has had the benefit of legal advice over the period of two years from a qualified  
and experienced solicitor.  The cost of this has been  covered by Markel  which  he wouldnt 
have had if the nuisance claim had been excluded soon after it was made. That includes  the 
law firm sending  letters to his neighbour setting out the basis  of his claim(s), obtaining a 
barristers opinion on the merits of his case (and being advised  that he had a relatively 
strong nuisance claim),  and preparing his legal  case up to the point when proceedings 
needed to be issued. So if Mr M wanted to pursue the matter himself   or with alternative 
representation - hes now able to do that. Because of the benefit Mr M has derived I dont 
think Markel need to do anything more in these circumstances.
Ive taken into account the comments that Mr M wouldnt have renewed  his LEI policy  if hed 
known his claim wasnt covered  presumably  in 2015 or 2016. And that had he been told 
earlier that this claim  was excluded under the policy, he wouldve changed insurers.  He says 
hes now in the position where hes unable to get insurance to cover this claim going  
forwards. 
Even if hed been  told much earlier that the nuisance claim was excluded  under the policy, 
the circumstances that had given rise to that claim had occurred during the period of cover  
under the LEI policy  he had with Markel. Its not uncommon for LEI policies to exclude cover  
for property  disputes  arising out of pollution and its rare for a LEI policy  to cover a claim  that 
arises out of something  that occurred before a policy  starts. So even if cover had been 
withdrawn much earlier, I think its unlikely that Mr M wouldve been  able to find a LEI policy 
to cover him for this particular claim. So I dont think hes lost out. 
Mr M also says hes been unable to insure  the equipment. Thats  because  he says insurers  
dont provide cover for pre-existing damage and the equipment has been  damaged  due to 
the silt in the burn. That might be the case but I dont think thats a result  of anything  Markel  
did. And nor do I think it was caused by Markels decision to initially accept the nuisance  
claim and then to subsequently  withdraw cover two years later. 
Ive also taken on board that Mr M says he wasnt given a choice of law firm to use by 
Markel. And he says that the law firm has always been  on Markels side.  Under  the policy he 
was only entitled  to choose his own solicitors at the point which legal  proceedings were  
necessary, or where there was a conflict of interest. That sort of term isnt unusual  in LEI 
policies. And its not uncommon for LEI insurers to have an approved  panel of law firms it 
appoints to represent the insured in a legal claim. So I dont think  Markel has acted unfairly 
by not giving Mr M a choice of representation at the outset. And in any event Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Mr M contacted  Markel at any stage prior to cover  being withdrawn to 
request that another law firm be appointed to represent him. 
Ref: DRN93890605the other claims:
As stated above cover  is only provided  if Mr M had more chance of succeeding in his claims 
than not. Again its very common  for LEI policies to include  a condition like this and generally 
we dont think that sort of clause is unfair. Thats because  it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect an insurer to provide funding for a claim that isnt likely  to succeed, or where a client  
paying the costs themselves wouldnt be advised  to start legal action or continue with it. 
The barrister  advised that the prospects of Mr M succeeding in the fire damage claim were 
less than 51%. Markel arent  legal  experts  so its entitled to rely on the barristers opinion  in 
respect of the merits of the claim. So, I dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
applying the policy terms to decline cover for the fire damage claim from the point it received 
that advice as that claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success.
Further, I dont think Markel has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not covering any claim for 
online comments made by Mr Ms neighbour about  his distillery application or malicious 
complaints affecting  his business. Looking at the policy, those sorts of claims just arent  
covered under the policy. 
Mr M has recently asked that we request certain  documents from Markel and / or the law 
firm to do with the preparation  of his legal case such as the legal proceedings the law firm 
says were prepared, and invoices providing a breakdown of the work the law firm did for him. 
If he requires such documents he can request these from the law firm directly. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9389060