K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G complains that she experienced  issues with the direct  debit payments on her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS).
Background
Mrs G had an ISA with BOS which had a regular standing order of £170 credited to it each 
month by a relative.  In March 2019, Mrs Gs relative  noticed the payments  hed made had 
been returned since May 2018. This meant  around  £2,000 hadnt been  credited to Mrs Gs 
account as expected. So she contacted BOS to see what had happened.
BOS said the account had been de-activated which meant the payments from Mrs Gs 
relative werent being received into Mrs Gs account but instead returned back to the sending 
account. Mrs G wasnt  happy  as she hadnt asked  for the account deactivation, and she felt 
that BOS should  have  identified this had happened. Mrs G also felt the staff shed spoken to 
about this hadnt been very helpful,  so she made a complaint.
BOS upheld Mrs Gs complaint and apologised for the problems shed suffered. They said 
they couldnt confirm if the error  had occurred with their system or with her relatives bank,  
so they accepted it might have been their issue. They apologised for the conflicting  
information Mrs G had received on the phone and agreed to pay her £100 compensation for 
the error.  They also agreed to add the interest to her account which  was missed when the 
direct debit payments  hadnt been received. 
Mrs G didnt agree as she didnt think the compensation  offered by BOS was enough. So 
she asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator thought BOS had done  enough  to put things right. She said BOS had 
apologised, reactivated the account  the following day and offered a fair amount of 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  She also said it was unreasonable to expect 
the bank to monitor all their customers accounts at all times. So she didnt  recommend  the 
complaint be upheld.
Mrs G didnt agree. She felt shed had to convince BOS that an error had occurred, and if it 
hadnt been a relative  paying into her account, she wouldnt have  been  able to prove this. 
Mrs G felt BOS  had dealt with her complaint poorly  so she should  get more  compensation. 
So she asked for her complaint to be looked  at by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that the £100  
compensation BOS  has offered is fair and reasonable for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Theres no dispute that an error occurred on Mrs Gs account. This caused her 
inconvenience as she had made  branch visits to sort the matter  out, made lengthy calls,  and 
didnt have credits to her account as she expected. But BOS have apologised for these 
errors and for the poor customer service Mrs G said she experienced from their member  of 
staff. 
Ref: DRN98115452I recognise the frustration  Mrs G experienced from both the deactivation of her account and 
being asked to provide evidence to show that an error had occurred. However, Ive seen that 
BOS werent aware of the error or how it happened until Mrs G brought it to their attention, 
which is why they asked for evidence of this. And I dont think  given the circumstances  of the 
error that this was an unreasonable  request.  Ive seen that Mrs Gs account  was reactivated 
the following  day once  BOS were shown this information. And although missed payments 
werent credited  to her account  as expected, Mrs G was able to use the account from the 
reactivation date and BOS credited the interest she wouldve  had if the payments had been 
received. So I dont think BOS acted unreasonably  towards Mrs G.
Mrs G is unhappy as the error has meant  her relative is now a year behind  with his 
payments to her. But I think its worth noting  that the payments which were made by Mrs Gs 
relative - and then subsequently rejected  wouldve been returned to the account theyd 
come from.  So when  Mrs Gs account  was reactivated they couldve been  re-credited to her 
account. And this credit, along with the interest BOS applied  wouldve meant  Mrs G and her 
relative wouldve  both been in the position  they shouldve been  had an error not occurred.     
Trouble and upset  
Mrs G said shes  not happy  with the compensation  amount as she experienced numerous 
issues whilst  trying to resolve the account deactivation. And she felt BOS  didnt believe an 
error had occurred and blamed her for the issues she experienced. But its not for me to 
punish or fine the bank for making  a mistake, and taking into account all the circumstances I 
think the compensation offered by BOS is reasonable. So I wont be asking  them to increase 
it.
I understand Mrs G will be disappointed  but I think that BOS have done  enough  to put things  
right
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Mrs G wants to accept  the £100  compensation which Bank of Scotland plc has offered her, 
she should contact  them directly and ask them to pay her the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9811545