K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  because Aviva Health UK Limited  (Aviva)  has declined  a claim he made on 
his employers group  private medical insurance scheme. 
background
Mr T is a member  of a group private  medical  insurance scheme,  via his employer. In 
February 2018, he had elective  gastric  bypass surgery. Following the operation  he suffered 
a chest infection which  caused him to be admitted  to hospital for 12 days.  
In March 2018, Mr T submitted a claim to Aviva for the hospital  stay. He said he understood 
the gastric bypass surgery wasnt covered under the scheme. However,  as the hospital  stay 
had been caused by a chest infection, he felt this was covered under the NHS benefit 
section of the scheme. Aviva didnt agree. They said the chest infection was a result of the 
gastric bypass surgery and this wasnt covered under the scheme. 
Mr T didnt  think  this was fair so he made  a complaint. He said hed been suffering from a 
chest infection before the surgery  so he should  be able to claim for his stay in hospital. Aviva 
still didnt agree. They said whilst they didnt dispute Mr T had suffered a chest infection, 
they felt that had he not had the gastric bypass surgery, he wouldnt have suffered from 
complications leading  to an extended  stay in hospital. And as the gastric bypass surgery 
wasnt covered under  the scheme, neither were the following  12 days. Mr T didnt agree so 
he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt  think Aviva had acted 
unreasonably by saying the chest infection was related to the surgery.  She felt the scheme 
was clear that anything  directly or indirectly related to gastric bypass surgery wouldnt be 
covered. So she didnt think Aviva had treated Mr T unfairly by declining  his claim. 
Mr T didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. So the case  has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Under the relevant industry rules and guidelines,  Aviva has a responsibility  to handle claims 
fairly and not reject  a claim unreasonably.  Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint as I dont think 
Aviva have acted unreasonably in declining his claim for the NHS benefit.  Ill explain why.
Mr T told us he wanted to claim the £100  per night NHS cash benefit.  He said he had the 
chest infection for a couple of days before  he had the gastric bypass surgery, so he feels  his 
hospital stay wasnt related  to this and should be covered. But Ive listened to a call in 
February 2018 between Aviva  and Mr T where  he said his chest infection had started the 
day after the surgery  not two days before. He also said that he had taken a few days  off 
work before the operation and that he mentioned  that to the surgeon,  but that he was fine 
and able to go ahead  with the operation.  
Ref: DRN93622922Aviva then explained to Mr T he wouldnt be able to claim for his 12 night stay as it was 
related to the gastric bypass surgery  which wasnt covered  under the scheme. Ive seen 
that Mr Ts employer scheme exclusions say that benefits will not be available for anything 
that is directly or indirectly related to bariatric surgery (weight loss surgery), such  as gastric 
banding or a gastric  bypass. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva  to decline the 
claim initially based on the information  Mr T had given  them.  
Mr T told Aviva hed had the chest  infection before his surgery had taken place.  Ive seen 
that Aviva  told Mr T they would review his claim again once  theyd received information  from 
the specialist.  And when  this was received, Aviva still felt Mr Ts chest infection was related 
to the surgery - so his claim was declined for a second time. Ive looked  at the evidence from 
Mr Ts discharge  summary which noted  he Post surgically required and ITU stay 5 days with 
a drain in situ and was hypoxic post-surgery requiring respiratory  support . So I dont think 
Aviva treated Mr T unfairly by saying his hospital  stay wouldnt have happened if he hadnt 
had the gastric bypass  surgery.
Ive also looked  at the information provided by the Royal  College of Anaesthetics  which 
explains that general anaesthetics can affect the normal way that phlegm is moved out of the 
lungs  which can develop into to chest  infections.  Although Mr T may have had a cough 
several days before the surgery, he actually required the hospital stay due to a chest 
infection caused by his gastric bypass surgery. And in these circumstances I think Aviva  
dealt with Mr Ts claim fairly based on the information they had. 
I understand that Mr T will be disappointed  with my decision, but I dont think Aviva  have 
acted unreasonably in declining his claim for the NHS cash  benefit. So I wont  be asking  
them to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9362292