K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2002. Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 17 December  2018  I set out why I wasnt  minded  to uphold the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to make any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs L have made  
any further submissions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that: 
Currently, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent  aware they took PPI and would not have taken it if they had 
known about it. Lloyds says it wouldnt have added  it to their account  unless they agreed  to 
take it, and it wouldve  made the optional nature of the PPI clear.
Neither Lloyds not Mr and Mrs L have  all the paperwork from the time of sale, thats not 
unreasonable, given how long ago the PPI was sold. But where there is a dispute like this, 
and limited information is available from the time of sale, I have to decide what I think is 
more likely based on the evidence available. So Ive thought  carefully about everything
Mr and Mrs L have said in addition  to looking at the documentary  evidence available.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage application form had a separate  section for PPI and the box 
requesting cover has been  selected and the form has been signed  by them. I have  noted  the 
box declining cover was initially ticked but has been crossed out and initialled to confirm this 
was an error. Lloyds internal records show Mr and Mrs L agreed to take the PPI. Lloyds says 
it then sent them a budget  planner  and PPI proposal form to confirm  they wanted  to take the 
PPI. Lloyds believes this was returned  and the PPI added but they only retain  a copy  of the 
budget planner.  Lloyds  says Mr and Mrs L didnt take PPI when they originally took their 
mortgage in 1995, the policy  wasnt added to their mortgage until 2002. So they would have 
known that the PPI wasnt a condition of the lending as they had already had a mortgage 
without PPI for several years.
Overall, Ive not seen  enough to conclude that Lloyds  didnt  made it clear Mr and Mrs L had 
a choice about taking the PPI or that they didnt choose to take it out.
Ref: DRN94589592Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs L to take the PPI so it had to check the PPI was right for them.  
And based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I think  it was.
Mr and Mrs L were  eligible for the policy. Mrs L was employed but Mr L was self-employed  
and some policies  make it more difficult for self-employed people to make a claim for 
unemployment. But Ive had a look at this policy, and I dont  think it wouldve been more  
difficult for Mr L to make  a claim for unemployment.  And Mr and Mrs L werent affected by 
any of the other exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr and Mrs L also seem to have had a need for the cover. Mrs L had some  sick pay
provided by her employer  and they both had some other means such  as savings they 
couldve used to help them make repayments  should they have found themselves  
unexpectedly out of work. But this policy couldve paid out on top of Mrs Ls sick pay. It 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs L was unable  to work because of illness,  
injury or unemployment. They then couldve  used  their sick pay and savings for other 
essential expenditure. So, based on everything Ive seen, I think the PPI couldve been 
useful for them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  secured 
on their home  and the consequence of not being able to make  repayments can be serious. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put them  off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said. But these points dont change my 
decision. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs L any commission back. 
Lloyds says it cant find any evidence  that Mr and Mrs L paid any premiums after this policy 
was set up. Due to the time thats passed,  and the limited information  available, it cant  
explain why this was the case.  But it looks as though no premiums  (and therefore  
commission) were  ever paid. Lloyds has, in any event, already offered to give Mr and Mrs L 
back some  of the cost of the PPI, assuming  they paid premiums  for one year.  I understand 
Lloyds has already paid this to Mr and Mrs L. I dont currently think  it needs to do anything 
more.
But if Mr and Mrs L can find any evidence  they either paid for the PPI before 2002 or after 
2003, please do send this to me by the deadline  mentioned below.
As explained above, neither Lloyds  nor Mr and Mrs L have made any additional comments in 
response to my provisional  decision. So in the absence of any new points for me to consider, 
I find no reason to depart from my original  findings  as set out in my provisional decision so I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN94589593Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9458959