K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc sent her misleading information about transfers out 
of her account, so she spent a lot of time trying to find out what had gone  wrong.
background
Ms N said that she was transferring her current account away from Santander  to a different 
bank. But she said that Santander sent her a letter stating that the closing balance  of her 
account was only 10p. She thought  she had over £1,400 in the account, and she said she 
spent a considerable amount of time working  out what had gone wrong. 
Ms N also said that a transfer  from her personal account to her joint account was wrongly 
recorded as a transfer to her savings account.  She said that she was complaining about the 
mistakes that Santander kept making,  which took so much time to resolve.  
Santander transferred  the full balance of Ms Ns current account with it to her new account 
elsewhere. But her current account with it earned  interest, so Santander  also then needed  to 
calculate any outstanding interest,  and pay that. This was the last, small transfer made out of 
her account.  Santander  showed us statements which supported  what  it said about this. It 
appreciated that Ms N had read its letter differently, and it was going to consider changing  it 
to make it clearer.  But Santander didnt think it had got anything wrong. 
Santander had also transferred some  money  from Ms Ns sole account to a joint account she 
shared with someone else. It understood that this was a transfer that Ms N feared had been 
made to her savings account instead, because  the reference used for the payment was 
regular monthly saver.  But Santander said that Ms N had agreed to that suggested 
reference, so it didnt think that it had misled her.
Santander apologised for any trouble or upset that had been caused.  But because  it hadnt 
actually made any mistakes, it didnt think it should  have to do any more.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He knew  Ms N had gone to 
quite some trouble  to find out why the closing balance of her Santander account was only 
10p. But he thought Santander  couldve explained this to her right away.  It had explained 
this once she spoke  to it. Our investigator  didnt think Santander made  a mistake about this. 
Our investigator listened to the call where  Ms N had asked for the £200 transfer to be made 
from her sole account to her joint account.  He said Ms N had agreed to the reference  used. 
So our investigator didnt think that any confusion  that arose here was Santanders  fault. 
Ms N contacted us to say that wasnt how she remembered the call where  shed asked for 
money to be transferred, but she would accept  what wed said about that. She said shed 
also got a letter from Santander on 10 January 2019  saying that it was sorry she was leaving 
and it would send  her a statement two days before the account closed. She wanted to know  
if Santander had actually sent that statement, because then she couldve seen what had 
happened with the balance on that account.  
When our investigator spoke to Santander, it said that it hadnt  sent her any letter like that. 
So Ms N sent us a letter  that said Santander  would send her a statement two days before 
her account  was closed,  bringing her transactions up to date. It would  then send her a 
Ref: DRN93410072closure statement  with a letter confirming the account was closed. Santander said that it had 
sent those statements.  
As the two sides hadnt agreed, this case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
I understand Ms N no longer complains  about  the transfer from her sole account to her joint 
account, which she thought was given  a misleading reference. Ive also listened to the call 
where this transfer  was arranged, and I also think that Ms N agreed to the reference.  In fact, 
I can hear that the call handler suggested a reference of monthly  saver , and Ms N said she 
would like regular monthly saver.  Thats the payment reference that was used. So I dont 
think that Santander did anything wrong  here.  
Santander sent Ms N a letter  on 17 January telling her that her closing balance of 10p had 
been paid to her new account. Ive also seen a statement that runs up to 17 January, the 
date of account closure. That shows  two transfers.  The first is her account balance  of 
£1,224.75. Then the account is credited with 10p in interest, and that final 10p is transferred. 
Any statement  that Santander issued two days before account closure wouldnt show those 
final transactions. The closing account  statement would.  I think both those statements were 
sent to Mrs N. It seems likely, from what Mrs N has said,  that she received the letter dated 
17 January, but not the statement of the same date.  I think thats  unfortunate, and has 
caused some confusion,  but I dont think thats Santanders fault. 
Because I dont think that any confusion in this case has actually been caused  by Santander, 
I dont think it has to do more than its done  already. I know that Ms N will be disappointed, 
but I dont think  this complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9341007