K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W and Mrs B took out their initial  mortgage  in 1984. They believe they were  mis-sold a 
PPI policy  alongside  this mortgage.  
In 1996 Mr W and Mrs B remortgaged and were sold a PPI policy  at the same  time. The PPI 
was in Mr Ws name only. They  paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  The PPI covered Mr W 
for accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 months per claim  providing a 
monthly benefit of £450. One month after the policy had started  the benefit was changed to 
£500. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W and Mrs Bs initial mortgage  taken in 1984
Mr W and Mrs B are adamant  that they were sold a PPI policy  when they took their initial 
mortgage.
Halifax has provided evidence to show that it has searched its records  and while it has a 
record of Mr W and Mrs Bs mortgage from 1984,  there is no evidence that PPI was sold.  
Halifax also explained that it first started selling PPI to protect  mortgages  in 1986. 
Considering the above  I am satisfied  that Mr W and Mrs B werent sold PPI alongside their 
initial mortgage in 1984.
But if Mr W and Mrs B come across  any evidence that suggests otherwise, Halifax should 
consider this.
the PPI policy  taken in 1996
Mr W and Mrs B say that the PPI was compulsory  and if they didnt take the PPI they 
wouldnt have been able to go ahead with the borrowing.
Having reviewed the paperwork, I cant see that the PPI was a condition  of obtaining the 
borrowing. On the mortgage application form it states We recommend that you consider 
our Mortgage repayments Insurance Scheme. 
Ref: DRN93294622Mr W had to sign separately for the PPI within the mortgage application and he also had to 
complete and sign a separate  Mortgage  Repayments Insurance application form. 
So from the information Halifax has provided I think Halifax made it clear that 
Mr W and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out to cover 
Mr W only. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B. And from the information Mr W and Mrs B 
have given us about their circumstances,  it seems to have been right for them at the time. 
Taking a mortgage  is a large, long term financial commitment, and there  can be serious  
consequences if repayments arent  met. 
While Mr W received some sick pay from his employer,  the PPI would have  covered  the 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months for each claim if Mr W wasnt  able to work 
because of sickness or lost his job.
I appreciate that Mr W and Mrs B held savings that they say they could have used to meet  
their repayments  but the PPI provided them with a security  that meant they wouldnt have 
to rely on savings to meet  their repayments.  And those savings could have been used for 
something else or their original purpose.
So, all things considered,  I think PPI provided  a useful  benefit and I cant  fairly say that the 
advisers recommendation  was unsuitable.
I cant be sure how clearly  the adviser  explained  the cost of the PPI, but the cost is set out 
on the mortgage repayments insurance application form. So I think  it likely Mr W and Mrs B 
were aware of the monthly cost of the policy and of the benefit amount it provided. 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr W doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. So I dont  think  more information  about 
this would have  changed their minds  to take out the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W and Mrs B about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Mr W and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W and Mrs B have said about the sale of PPI and their 
circumstances. But for the reasons given above  these points dont change  my decision.
I note Mr W had a claim for unemployment  under the PPI policy that was declined.  Having  a 
claim declined  doesnt necessarily make the PPI policy  unsuitable. In this decision I have 
only looked at the sale of the policy in 1996  and what Mr Ws circumstances were  at the 
point of sale. Having  done so I consider that Mr W was eligible for all parts of the cover and 
so thought the policy was of use as explained  above. 
Ref: DRN93294623If Mr W is unhappy that the insurer declined his claim and thinks  this was unfair and wasnt  
correct then that is a separate complaint. And it is a complaint that needs to be directed to 
the insurer and not Halifax who was the seller of the policy. 
my final decision
I am satisfied that Mr W and Mrs B werent  sold PPI alongside their initial mortgage in 1984. 
But if Mr W and Mrs B come across  any evidence that suggests otherwise it should provide 
that to Bank of Scotland  plc for it to consider.
The PPI policy taken  in 1996 wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr W and Mrs B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
If Bank of Scotland plc hasnt  paid the compensation, then it should make  arrangements  to 
pay Mr W and Mrs B now Ive issued  my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9329462