K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that she was mis-sold a payment protection,  (PPI),  insurance  policy, (PPI).
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision of 21 March  2019, a copy of which is attached to this final decision.
Neither Ms B nor FICL has sent us any further information or commented on my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our general  approach  to complaints about the sale of payment protection  
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Ms Bs complaint.
As neither party has sent us any further  information or comments since  receiving it, I see no 
reason to vary my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97641412Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms B complains  that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been  agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to FICL throughout  my decision.
background
Ms B took out the PPI at the same time as she took out a store card in 2003. The sale took place in 
the store.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld.  As FICL didnt agree with our 
adjudicator the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our general  approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection  insurance  
on our website. Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.  I explain why below.
Ms B says that she didnt know that she had been sold PPI. But I think that she knew that it was 
optional and that she chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen her signed  store-card 
application form. I can see that in the section dealing  with PPI she has signed to accept the 
insurance.
But because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Ms B may no longer remember the 
detail of what  happened;
Ms B and FICL agreed that FICL didnt recommend  Ms B to take out the PPI. This means  that it 
didnt have  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it was suitable  for Ms Bs needs.  She had to 
decide for herself whether she wanted the policy,  in the light of her personal and financial 
circumstances at the time. 
But FICL did have to give Ms B clear, fair and not-misleading information about  the PPI so that 
she could make  an informed decision whether to buy it or not. Its likely that FICL failed  to do this. 
But from what  I know  about  Ms Bs circumstances  and the terms and conditions that I think were 
likely to apply at the time of the sale, I find that:
oMs B was likely  to have  been eligible for the policy;
oMs B had no savings or other insurance  that could  have helped her make her monthly store 
card payments. Ms B was only entitled to ten days sick pay from her employer and had no 
savings But its likely that following a successful claim the policy would  have paid 15% of the 
balance on Ms Bs store card a month if shed been unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. These payments would  likely both have been made in addition  to 
anything from Ms Bs employment and have been paid until she returned to work or the 
balance had been  paid off, if earlier.  So I think the PPI could have been of use to Ms B;
Ref: DRN97641413oThe terms and conditions  that I think were likely  to have applied to Ms B would  have included 
that the policy wouldnt pay out for any time off work because of a pre-existing medical 
condition. I havent seen anything to show that FICL pointed  this out to Ms B. I think that this 
might have mattered to her because she had such conditions. But she has told us that these  
conditions were  managed by regular medication  and she had never  had to take time off work  
because of them. So I dont think  that she would have changed  her mind and not bought the 
policy had FICL highlighted this likely exception to her. And I dont think  it is likely that Ms B 
would have  been  affected by any of the policys  other likely restrictions and limitations  such  
as those affecting someone who was self-employed;
oThe cost of the policy  was £1 a month for each £100 on Ms Bs store card balance.  It was 
competitively priced  by reference to other similar polices available  in the market at the time 
and had a reasonable benefit.  And I havent seen anything to suggest  that Ms B couldnt  
afford the premiums. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, if shed later thought that it was 
unaffordable, or otherwise didnt want it any more, she could  have cancelled the PPI at any 
time without further cost.
So from what  Ive said above I dont think that clearer  information would have changed  Ms Bs 
mind and stopped her taking the policy. So she hasnt lost out because of anything that FICL 
may have done wrong during the sale. This means that theres nothing I require FICL to put 
right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, subject to any further comments or evidence I receive, as above, my 
provisional decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9764141