K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about the sum that UK Insurance  Limited (UKI), trading as Privilege, 
paid him under his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
background
Following the theft of his car, Mr A was offered £21,907 (less the policy excess) by UKI. Mr A 
did not consider  that this was a fair valuation of his car. He commented that his car was quite 
rare due to the factory  fitted  extras that it had. Mr A highlighted that there were 34 extras  that 
totalled £29,833 excluding VAT when the car was manufactured.
UKI stated that the valuation guide that it used to value Mr As car did not provide a 
depreciated sum for any of the manufacturer options  that are fitted  to it. UKIs opinion was 
that this is because the value of most optional extras depreciates  out. However, its 
settlement amount had included a value  for three of the most expensive extras, which  it had 
then applied a depreciation  factor to, such that they increased the settlement  by £2,657.
Mr A questioned why the settlement was not increased in respect of the other  31 extras.  He 
stated that he was unable to purchase  a like for like vehicle with the settlement paid to him. 
Mr A also said that with this type of car, the more  extras they have, the higher price the seller 
demands. Dissatisfied  with UKIs  settlement offer, he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that in basing the cars valuation  
on the motor trade guides, UKI had acted fairly and within the terms of the insurance policy.
Mr A disagreed with these  findings. He has commented that the trade  guides  do not value 
any extras  fitted  to a car, and that the value for such extras  would be negotiated in any sale. 
Mr A has also said that in the luxury car market, sale values  are affected by what  extras  a 
vehicle has. He has explained  that the purchase price he paid for the car is irrelevant 
because the company he bought from was keen to sell, and he was fortunate  to be in the 
right place at the right time. Mr A reports that the dealer that supplied  his car has told him 
that it has never supplied  a similar make and model  with the same number of extras, making  
it impossible to find a comparable vehicle that is for sale now.
Mr A has reiterated his concerns that UKI only included a value for 3 of the 34 extras,  and 
this included a reduction based  on depreciation. He says that it is not possible to add extras  
into the trade guides for valuation purposes, and that consequently its necessary to contact 
the supplying  dealer  for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  allows  for UKI to pay the market  value of the car in the event of theft.  The 
market value is defined  as the cost of replacing  your car with another  of the same make  and 
model and of a similar  age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. 
In calculating its offer of settlement to Mr A, UKI consulted trade guides. Our investigator 
similarly did so, to determine  whether in his view the sum offered by UKI was fair. Mr A does 
not consider the offer is fair, on the basis that the trade guides do not appropriately take into 
Ref: DRN94166542account the value of the extras that were  fitted  to his car. He has highlighted that it is not 
possible for him to provide evidence such as adverts to show that the settlement value is 
unfair because he is not able to find a car with similar extras  to his that is for sale.
I note that Mr A says he will not be able to purchase a like for like replacement for his stolen 
car with the settlement  UKI has paid him. However, trade guide prices are based  on 
research carried out to find the actual  selling costs of particular cars, and I consider it 
reasonable to take these into account  when determining what the fair market  value of a 
vehicle is. On balance  my view is that the trade  guides do provide the most  appropriate  
method to determine  the market value  of Mr As vehicle.
The trade guide valuation tools do allow for optional extras to be included. However, in the 
case of Mr As car, the guides indicate that these extras do not increase the cars  market 
value. When valuing his car, UKI agreed  that it would include an amount in respect of 3 of 
the 34 extras fitted, with those three being some of the most expensive  extras  when 
compared to their original  costs. UKI then applied a depreciation factor to these three extras.
Overall my view is that Mr A has not provided  sufficient evidence  to demonstrate that the 
market value of his vehicle was more  than the amount  offered by UKI. I accept that the 
vehicle was in good condition, and it clearly had many extras  fitted to it. Mr A has shown the 
cost of those extras  when added to the car at the point of manufacture, and I acknowledge 
that those costs at that time were significant. However I dont  consider  Mr A has shown that 
these extras justified a valuation above  the amount offered by UKI in respect of the cars 
value when it was stolen.
I say that taking into account  the trade guides treatment of those extras.  It seems to me that 
the value of optional extras will depreciate over time.  Further to that, in my opinion some 
extras do not increase the value of a vehicle at all - they simply add to its attractiveness  to a 
prospective buyer. I also understand that one of the trade guides advises that it is only a 
limited number of particular types of extras that might add value to a vehicle.
In conclusion, my view is that it was reasonable for UKI to base  its settlement figure upon 
the trade guides.  Based on the market values produced by those guides, and having  
increased the settlement to reflect three of the extras fitted to Mr As car, I consider that UKI 
has acted fairly when paying the settlement amount that it has. I appreciate that Mr A is likely 
to be disappointed with my findings,  but I am not persuaded on the balance  of the evidence 
provided that UKI should be required to increase the settlement sum.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9416654