K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National,  mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  For ease  Ill refer to the business as 
Santander in my decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage  in 1993. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy, this covered Mr F for accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  for the reasons Ive set out below.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs F gave  us their best recollections of the events of 1993. And 
Ive thought carefully about what they said, including that they were led to believe they 
needed to have the insurance cover in order to secure the mortgage. Santander has 
defended itself on this and other points.   
 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over 25 years  ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither  Santander nor Mr and Mrs F have been able to provide any of the 
specific sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Santander didnt make Mr and Mrs F aware the PPI 
was optional. Whilst I acknowledge  that things couldve happened  just as Mr and Mrs F said, 
considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be 
able to uphold  the complaint on this point. So having considered all the submissions  I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that Santander wouldve made them  aware that 
the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember  that 
now, many  years later. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and it seems  to have been right for them based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time. For example  Mr F was most likely eligible for the policy and 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  And he seems to have 
had a need for the cover. I appreciate that Mr F had good sick pay initially,  but it dropped  
significantly after six months  so he may have  had to utilise their modest savings. However, 
its most  likely that the PPI wouldve been  able to meet the mortgage payments for longer 
than Mr Fs employer  would have paid him at his full rate of pay, if off work through  ill health, 
and would have  provided a measure  of financial assistance if he lost his job. 
Ref: DRN91890222The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought  about everything carefully, I think  the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F.
 
I dont know what information Mr and Mrs F were given about  the policy during the meeting. 
So its possible they didnt  get everything they needed. But for the same reasons  given  
above that made me think the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F, I dont think  more or 
better information wouldve made a difference to their decision to buy it. So, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs F have  lost out as a result of anything Santander may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189022