K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited wouldnt pay her the market 
value of her written-off  car and that it disposed of it without her permission. 
 
background
Miss Hs car was stolen  in May 2017. It was found  a few months later, but due to the extent 
of the damage  done to it, the car was written-off. Admiral was in the process  of validating the 
claim at the time, and had concerns about  how the car was purchased. In September  2018, 
after Miss H had complained to us, Admiral told Miss H it wasnt going to cover  the claim.  It 
said she hadnt provided all the information  it needed. Shortly  afterwards, due to an error 
made at the salvage agents  premises where  the car was stored, it was sold. Admiral  paid 
Miss H £300 compensation for that, plus the £6,090  it was paid for the salvage. 
One of our investigators  considered Miss Hs complaint. She thought  Admiral  had dealt 
reasonably with the error made in selling the car. In her opinion, Admiral had the right to 
make enquiries into the cars ownership  and the funds used to buy it. But she said Miss H 
had provided the cars V5 registration document and had explained that the car was bought 
in cash. As Miss H couldnt  provide any further  information, she thought Admiral should  deal 
with the claim and pay Miss H the cars pre-accident market value, less the salvage sum, 
plus £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Admiral said it had a duty to ensure  that a car it was being asked to pay for was bought  with 
legitimate funds. It said Miss H and her ex-partner had provided  varying  accounts  of how the 
car was paid for, and there was no evidence to show where the cash  had come  from. It said 
as the cars seller  was a friend, his receipt for the funds should be viewed in the light of that.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  the complaint as follows:
I agree  that Admiral  dealt reasonably with Miss Hs complaint about the sale of her car 
without her knowledge or consent. 
As Miss H made a claim on the policy, its for her to show the claims valid and to answer  
Admirals reasonable  queries about  it. Although  shes provided the cars V5 document, that 
only shows shes the cars registered keeper. It isnt proof of ownership. I think  its fair for 
Admiral to want to establish that Miss H is the cars  owner and how it was paid for. 
Miss H says she and her ex-partner bought it with £20,000 in cash, and theres  nothing  
wrong with that in itself. Neither  she nor her ex-partner thinks £20,000 is a large amount of 
money. But I dont think  most  consumers  would keep such  a sum at home  and paying 
cash is an unusual way to buy a car of that value.  So I can see why Admiral  asked Miss C 
for evidence  of the purchase.   
I think its reasonable for Admiral to say that Miss H hasnt provided all the details it needs, in 
line with the policy requirement. Both she and her ex-partner have given information to 
Admiral about the cars purchase. They think theyve provided enough details for it to pay the 
claim. But there are discrepancies  in what theyve  said.  That includes several different 
versions of who paid for the car and changes in the sums they say each party put towards 
the purchase. The claims notes show that at one point, Miss C told Admiral  her father bought  
the car for her, which contradicts what  she and her ex-partner have  said at all other times. 
Ref: DRN95483712I think its reasonable for Admiral to have concerns  about what  has been said and to want 
reliable documentary evidence of the purchase.  Admiral  has tried to explain to Miss H why it 
needs further information from her. In my opinion it has given her every chance  to provide it. 
If Miss H cant show how the car shes making  a claim for as its owner was paid for, I dont  
think she can show that theres a loss for Admiral to cover under  her policy.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Admiral accepted it. Miss H didnt 
comment on the discrepancies  Id mentioned.  She said she should have been paid the 
market value for the car, regardless  of how it was paid for. She said shed provided evidence 
of the purchase, so Admiral should  have to pay her the rest of the money  for the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Miss Hs comments  have added anything to the points  shed already made 
before I issued my provisional decision.  Miss H has always thought she should  get the car 
back and that the claim should be paid. Admiral cant give her the car back, as it was sold in 
error by the salvage firm. But it has paid the salvage value of the car, plus compensation. 
Im still of the view that it was reasonable for Admiral  not to pay Miss H the cars market 
value. I think it made  it clear to her that it needed  more information to validate the claim and 
that she must prove the loss shed faced. Miss H hasnt been able to do that, in line with the 
policys requirements. So the concerns Admiral had about the cars  purchase remain.  
As I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Miss Hs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9548371