K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about QIC Europe  Ltds (QIC) decision to partially settle  a claim they 
made for damage to pipes  following a leak at their property.
Where I refer to QIC within this decision, this includes its agents and representatives. 
Similarly, where I refer to Mr and Mrs G, this includes their representatives.
background
Mr and Mrs G held a home insurance  policy provided by QIC. They were notified  by their 
utility provider that there was a water leak at their property.
Mr and Mrs G made a claim with QIC. Engineers had investigated the source of the leak and 
replaced a pipe. Mr and Mrs G claimed  for the full cost of these works. QIC offered to make 
a payment of what it would have cost its own contractor to trace, access and repair the leak 
if Mr and Mrs G had used them rather than their own engineers.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to QIC. They argued that QICs  contractor  had said they couldnt 
attend the property for several days,  and that because  of the leak theyd had no water  at the 
property. They said it had been impractical for them to move out of the property so had acted 
in accordance with the advice of the engineers who had initially attended, which  was to carry 
out the replacement works. 
QIC rejected the complaint. It pointed to the terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Gs policy,  
which said that any permanent repairs had to be authorised in writing by QIC in order  for 
them to be covered. It said that its contractor had been told they didnt need to attend 
because Mr and Mrs Gs engineers were already on site carrying out the repairs.  Its 
contractor had said it could have carried out the necessary works at a cost of £699.56 which  
was what it was willing to pay as settlement of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G remained  dissatisfied and referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  QIC had done anything  wrong. She didnt  think  that sufficient 
evidence had been provided to show that the leak had resulted from accidental damage to a 
pipe, and QIC hadnt given its permission for Mr and Mrs Gs contractors to carry out the 
works.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this and have asked for an ombudsmans decision. They point to 
previous decisions  of our service where weve taken the position that the existence of a leak 
is, in of itself, sufficient evidence of accidental damage. They  also argue that its unfair for 
QIC to be able to rely on the condition which says that all permanent works need  to be 
authorised in writing  before being  carried out.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Im satisfied based on my review of the complaint  that there  are two aspects I need to look 
into. The first is whether  the circumstances of the leak mean that Mr and Mrs G have 
demonstrated that it occurred due to accidental damage of the pipe. If I agree that this is the 
case, then I need  to look at whether QIC acted fairly when it limited its settlement  to what  it 
would have cost its own contractor to trace, access and repair  the lea.
Ref: DRN97165012Accidental damage
Mr and Mrs Gs provides  cover for accidental damage to their property, which  is defined  as 
Sudden,  unexpected and physical damage  which (i) happens at a specific  time, and (ii) was 
not deliberate,  and (iii) was caused  by something external and identifiable. 
The engineers who attended Mr and Mrs Gs property were  unable to locate  the source of 
the leak in the time they were there.  The decision was made to carry out the replacement 
works rather than continue with time consuming and potentially invasive and disruptive 
investigations into the source and cause of the leak. The engineers  also said that if the 
source of the leak was underneath the property  then a spot repair  couldnt be carried out.
Its Mr and Mrs Gs position,  based  on what the engineers have said, that the leak has been 
caused by the operation of an outside influence. They say this because the type of material  
used for the pipe in question does not corrode. The engineers concluded that some form of 
external damage  had caused the pipe to be leaking. QIC havent disputed  this.
I think its important that the exact  source  of the leak wasnt identified.  This means that the 
cause cant be definitively identified. But Im persuaded  that the detailed,  expert  report  from 
the engineers  does  demonstrate that its more likely than not that the leak has been  caused 
by the pipe being accidentally damaged  by an external factor.
I think that QIC has accepted this, up to a point. It argued that if its contractor had attended  
and located the source  of the leak, they would  have been able to confirm the cause of 
damage and therefore  ascertain whether this was a result of an insurable peril. If an 
insurable peril had been identified, it said its contractors  costs would have been £699.56 
plus VAT, the amount it offered in settlement of the claim.
If QIC thought that the cause of the damage  was due to corrosion, wear and tear or another 
uninsured reason, it seems to me that it wouldnt have made any offer of settlement. So Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that QIC has accepted, by its actions, that the leak was 
caused by accidental damage  to the pipe.
The limited  settlement
I now need to consider  whether QIC acted  fairly  in limiting its settlement to what its 
contractor said it would  have cost to trace, access and repair  the leak, or whether it should 
be asked to pay the full cost of the replacement works  carried out by Mr and Mrs Gs 
engineer.
When it limited  the settlement, QIC referred  to conditions of the policy which  said that Mr and 
Mrs G could not carry out any permanent  repairs without first getting our written 
permission, and that QIC have the right to choose  which contractors to instruct  to carry out 
the work.  
Ive listened to a phone call made by Mrs G to QICs agents on the day that the leak was 
discovered, and the claim was first set up. A senior representative from the engineers, who 
was at the property  at the time, spoke with QICs agents during the call.
Mrs G refers in the call to having spoken to QICs agents earlier  in the day, and that she said 
shed contact them again when she knew what was happening with the leak. Later in the 
Ref: DRN97165013call, the engineers senior representative says that Mrs G was told there was no cover  under 
the policy for the leak in the earlier call. I havent been provided with the earlier  call by QIC.
While there  are differing  accounts of exactly what was said in the earlier  call, Im not sure its 
particularly relevant which version is correct. Whats important is that, on being told of a leak 
at the property and that the source and cause of the leak was being, or to be, investigated, 
QICs agents could  have said to Mrs G it would appoint its agent to carry out the necessary 
investigations. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that it didnt  do this.
During the course of the call, the engineers senior  representative says that they are going to 
carry out the replacement of the pipe, as it was quicker and cheaper to do this. So Im 
satisfied theres evidence that QICs agent was made aware that this was the intended 
course of action from that point, but from what I can see it wasnt until the next day that 
QICs contractors were  asked to contact Mr and Mrs G, by which  time the replacement  
works were already under  way. And having been  informed of this, it appears that QICs 
contractor agreed to await the engineers  report to validate the claim. 
While I agree that Mr and Mrs G didnt obtain QICs written  permission  before  agreeing  to 
the permanent  repairs, Im satisfied that QIC had been given enough information prior to the 
permanent repairs being started that they were  the proposed course of action. It could have 
objected or asked for further information;  or insisted  upon that its contractor carry out the 
investigations and repairs. It didnt take that opportunity so I dont think its fair to say it 
should be allowed  to rely on the policy conditions Ive referred to above.
Furthermore, the settlement offer made  by QIC is, I think, based on two important 
assumptions. Its contractors report says that if theyd attended the property, we would have 
attempted to locate  the leak. If successful dug down and confirmed cause of damage and 
confirmed if it was an insured peril.  Our cost to trace, locate and point repair would be 
£699.56 + VAT. 
The first assumption the offered settlement makes is that the source of the leak would  have 
been traceable. The report from the engineer who attended indicates  that after 6 hours of 
investigations, the source wasnt located and that further investigations would be costly and 
disruptive, as it may have been underneath  the property. The contractors own report  says it 
would have attempted to locate the leak. It doesnt say with certainty  that it would have found 
the source of the leak.
The second  assumption is that the damage  would have  been suitable for a point  repair. If the 
source, and therefore  cause and extent of the damage isnt known, then Im not sure how it 
can be said that a point repair, rather than full replacement, would discharge QICs 
obligations to carry out a lasting and effective repair.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied that QIC acted fairly in limiting its settlement to what it 
said it would  have cost to locate and repair the leak. It had been  told about the intention  to 
carry out a full replacement, and didnt  act on receipt  of this information until after the works 
had commenced.  And it hasnt demonstrated  that the actions its said it would have taken, 
and therefore  the costs  it will cover, would have successfully traced and repaired the leak.
Putting things right
The first thing to say is that QICs contractor has agreed that the costs charged by Mr and 
Mrs Gs engineer of £1500 plus VAT for the replacement works is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN97165014QIC should pay this amount  to Mr and Mrs G in settlement of the claim. The costs are 
reasonable to resolve the issue  of the leak which was covered by Mr and Mrs Gs policy. It 
can deduct the amount already paid in settlement of the claim previously from this amount, 
and any applicable policy excess  which  hasnt  already been deducted from the previous 
settlement. 
QIC should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr and Mrs G 
paid the engineers invoice to the date of settlement.
Im satisfied as well that QICs handling of the claim has caused  inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs G. Im unable to say whether Mrs G, when she first called on the day of the leak was 
told the policy didnt  provide cover, but it does appear that in the first call she wasnt given 
any real guidance  or assistance by QICs agents.  And while this didnt lead to an extended 
period of time where  the property was without  water,  this was because Mr and Mrs G had 
contracted the engineers  to carry out the repairs. I think  that QIC should  pay £250 
compensation to Mr and Mrs G to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
the response to my provisional  decision
Representatives of both Mr and Mrs G and QIC responded to the provisional  decision. 
Neither party had any additional points which they wanted to be considered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs G nor QIC have made  any observations  about  the provisional  
decision, there are no further arguments or evidence for me to consider. Ive looked again at 
the evidence available  to me, and my provisional decision and remain satisfied  that my 
proposed findings represent a fair outcome  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97165015my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, QIC Europe Ltd must:
Settle the claim for the £1500  plus VAT paid by Mr and Mrs G for the repair  works, 
less the amounts already  paid and the applicable  policy  excess.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on this amount.
Pay £250 compensation. QIC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2021.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9716501