K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) didnt do enough to prevent him from 
becoming the victim of a scam and losing £290,000.
background
Mr S holds a personal account with Metro which he opened on 23 June 2014. In the year 
prior, he was approached and befriended by an individual  (T) at a networking event, who 
claimed to be an investment banker  working at a well-known  company. Mr S says that T 
made a show of flaunting  his wealth and extravagant lifestyle and also took him to lavish 
events and introduced him to other bankers. 
Around the time Mr S met T, he was in the process  of selling his property as he couldnt 
afford to keep up the repayments on his mortgage.  He says he invited T over to his house 
and told him about  the impending sale of his property, and that he would soon be coming  
into money. Mr S says that T kept in contact with him for the next seven to eight months and 
spoke about investment opportunities, as well as enquiring whether he had sold his property 
yet. T also accompanied  him to various property viewings and further  gained  his trust as a 
friend.
After selling the property, Mr S says he was under pressure to find a new home  for his 
parents with the proceeds,  as his mother was unwell  and required a property close  to the 
hospital. But he says he couldnt find anywhere affordable with the funds he had. 
T suggested  he could help Mr S make some more  money by investing in what he called the 
Euro/Dollar slide and showed him screenshots of certain funds he purportedly managed, 
as well as graphs which supposedly  showed  him making  a substantial amount of money  for 
his investment bank.  He said he had opened  positions for Mr S to invest and told him he 
could make £30,000 to £40,000 within just two weeks if he invested  his money, which  he 
said he wouldnt lose. Mr S says he felt under pressure  as a result  of his poor financial 
circumstances and the pressing need to buy a property for his parents, such  that he was 
persuaded into investing his money with T. So he went  into a Metro  branch on 3 July 2014 
and requested to transfer £290,000 to Ts bank account. He was asked to fill out a form by 
the bank regarding the purpose of the funds, and the transfer  was approved  and executed. 
A few days  after sending the money,  Mr S says that T wasnt  answering the phone or 
returning his calls. He said he later heard from him around two weeks later but realised he 
had been scammed  when T was taunting  him and sending him threatening and abusive 
messages. Mr S says he reported the fraud to both Metro and Barclays  (who  acted as the 
receiving bank for T in this matter)  but he says that both claimed they were unable to help 
him as he had authorised the payment. He said that Metro gave him a number for their fraud 
department, which he called and said he was passed around to different people and wasnt  
able to get any help. 
About four years later, in 2018, Mr S complained that Metro  ought to have done more  to 
prevent him from losing his money to this scam. Metro  said it had no records of any fraud 
being reported by Mr S in 2014  and said the first they became aware of it was when  he 
raised it with them  almost four years later on 3 March 2018.  Metro said Mr S had reported  
the loss outside the 13-month  period allowed by their terms and conditions;  and said that, in 
any event, he had authorised the transaction which was noted  on their form as lending for 
purchase. So they said they were  not liable to refund the money he lost.
Ref: DRN90649662Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He noted  that the 13-month timeframe for reporting  
fraudulent payments only applied to unauthorised payments, which Mr Ss was not. The 
investigator considered  that the payment was unusual for his account, such that Metro  ought 
to have made further enquiries into the nature  of the payment which,  if they had done so, 
wouldve made it apparent that Mr S was at risk of losing his money to a scam.  He noted that 
Mr Ss total loss of £290,000 was above our award limit (which the investigator said was 
£160,000, but shouldve  said £150,000 as the complaint was referred  to us before 1 April 
2019: see DISP  Rule 3.7.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook ). In any event, he 
invited Metro to pay the full amount.  
Metro disagreed. In summary, they said:
The complaint  should be dismissed under the rules and guidance in DISP  3.3.4A(5) 
and 3.34B(1) of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook on the basis that it would 
be better suited to court given the significant sums involved;
Mr S held a private banking account  with them (as opposed  to a standard account) 
which caters to more  high-net-worth  individuals, such  that transactions of £290,000 
would not be considered as out of the ordinary;
Mr S recorded the payment as lending  for purchase on the High Value  Transfer  
(HVT) form completed in branch. This has no connection to the true nature of the 
transfer as Mr S has now explained  it, so theres little to suggest he would have 
engaged in a full and frank  discussion  regarding  the details of the investment at the 
time, or that any intervention would have resulted in him not proceeding with the 
transfer. 
The screenshots provided by Mr S do not credibly support the fraudsters claims that 
he was managing a fund,  or that Mr S would receive a return of £30,000 to £40,000 
in two weeks. This demonstrates that he failed  to carry out any reasonable level of 
diligence before agreeing to pay £290,000.
They processed Mr Ss payment in accordance with the prevailing industry standards  
and regulations at the time  and think our service is retrospectively applying  a 
standard of care that was not a requirement  in 2014, where a banks primary 
obligation was to process a payment in accordance with the customers  instructions. 
It would  appear the Quincecare duty has been  applied, which is incorrect as recently 
confirmed by the High Court in the case of Philipp v Barclays Bank UK PLC [2021]  
EWHC 10 (Comm). The Quincecare  duty does not apply and Metro was under no 
obligations to make further inquiries in respect of the payment.
Mr Ss actions  following the payment in July 2014 are not typical  of someone who 
was defrauded  out of £290,000, and he has not been  able to provide a satisfactory 
explanation to account for the significant gaps in him reporting  the fraud to the police 
and to Metro in March 2018.
They would not agree to pay any amount over the award limit set by the regulator 
and also consider that awarding  a rate of interest  at 8% is neither fair nor reasonable. 
As Metro didnt agree, the matter was escalated to me to determine.  
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. I said I was minded to reach  
a different outcome to the investigator, as I didnt intend to uphold it, and set out the 
following provisional findings:
Dismissal 
Ref: DRN90649663Metro submit that I should use my discretion to dismiss  this complaint under 
DISP 3.3.4A(5) and 3.34B(1) on the basis that it would be better suited to court given 
the significant sums involved, which exceed  the statutory cap on our awards. 
I have considered Metros  submissions  in this regard, but Im not satisfied it would  be 
appropriate to dismiss the complaint solely due to the sums  involved. Our service 
regularly considers complaints where the loss exceeds our award  limit. Indeed, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000)  envisages the Ombudsman 
Service taking on complaints where  the loss exceeds the relevant award limit (see 
section 229(5) of FSMA 2000).  I also do not consider there to be any other 
compelling reasons  as to why this complaint would be better suited to court.
So Im not persuaded it would seriously  impair  the effective operation of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to consider  this complaint simply because the sums involved 
exceed our award  limit  particularly when FSMA 2000 makes express provision  for 
our service  to deal with such complaints. I will therefore not be exercising my 
discretion to dismiss it.
Merits
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards;  codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  
been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with 
the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (PSRs)  and the terms and conditions  of 
the customers account.  That was the case in July 2014, and remains so now,  and I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
In addition:  
Regulated firms like Metro are also required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to 
establish and maintain  effective systems  and controls for compliance with 
applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system  and for 
countering the risk that the firm might be used to further  financial crime 
(SYSC 3.2.6R, which has applied since 2001).  And over the years, the FSA 
and its successor the FCA have  published a series of papers setting out non-
exhaustive examples of good and poor practice  found when reviewing  
measures taken  by banks to counter financial crime:
oThe 2012 thematic review paper Banks  defences against  investment 
fraud  Detecting  perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012  
paper) sets out such non-exhaustive examples. And I am satisfied 
that the findings of this thematic review and SYSC 3.2.6R are of 
relevance to both sending and receiving  banks. For example,  the 2012  
paper considered  banks efforts to counter fraud  where both the 
customer is the fraudster and also where  the customer is the victim, in 
Ref: DRN90649664light of the regulatory obligation  to counter the risk that regulated firms 
might be used to further financial crime, including fraud.
oThe FSA also explained in the 2012  paper that whilst it focused  on 
investment fraud it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as 
well. Specifically, it said we have a regulatory  remit to tackle 
investment fraud, which  has prompted our particular interest in this 
area, although the lessons of this report can be applied to banks 
handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct affecting their 
customers.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In 2014 those 
requirements included  maintaining proportionate  and risk-sensitive  policies 
and procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for 
example through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing 
monitoring of the business relationship (including  through  the scrutiny  of 
transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship).   
The law itself also recognises that a bank may in limited  circumstances be 
liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has 
reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for believing that the 
payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty). I am mindful, however, that the 
courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.   For the avoidance of doubt, I am not 
suggesting Quincecare applies in this case,  I refer to it only to make the point 
that the broad legal position  that a bank  is expected  to process  payments that 
a customer authorises  is not absolute and Quincecare (like the other matters I 
have referred to here) is an example of that. 
Taking all of these things into account, I consider  that at the time of the payment in 
July 2014, Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined  to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in their 
dealings with Mr S when they processed  the £290,000 payment, and whether they 
can fairly be held liable for his loss. This particular case presents some peculiar 
difficulties with regards  to this decision, due to the little evidence available, as well as 
the significant length of time that has passed  since the payment was made. In this 
case, I do think Metro ought  to have done more in terms of making further  enquiries  
about the payment Mr S was making. However,  on balance,  Im not persuaded they 
Ref: DRN90649665can be fairly be held liable for the loss because  I dont consider that any such further 
enquiries wouldve  likely prevented the payment from being made. Ill explain why.  
It is common ground that Mr S authorised  the payment of £290,000 on 3 July 2014,  
and I accept this was an authorised payment even in the circumstances of the scam 
which Mr S has described. He requested the payment in branch and showed ID to 
verify that he was the account holder. So, although he did not intend the money to go 
to a fraudster, under  the PSRs, and the terms and conditions of his account,  Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
Ive gone on to consider whether Metro should  have  done more  to identify the 
transaction as potentially  being fraudulent and prevented Mr S from making it, 
because there are some situations in which a bank  should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding  a particular transfer. For example, if it 
was particularly out of character for Mr S.
I am aware  that Metro considers the investigator applied too high a standard to what 
is expected of them in terms of identifying  payments  that might  indicate a consumer 
is at risk of financial harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of 
its argument.  I note Metros comments, but as I have explained above, I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment  Metro have referenced in their 
submissions, where the judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty. Im 
not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies  to this case. And notwithstanding  what  
the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have a duty to 
resolve complaints  based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  taking into account  not just the law, but also regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider  to have been 
good industry practice at the time  in other  words,  the standards  I have set out 
above. 
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate  payments. The 
systems and procedures Metro put in place to manage those competing  demands 
are a matter  for them. I also appreciate that the year this payment was made pre-
dates codes such as the banking protocol by a number  of years,  and that there is 
now more detailed guidance available about the sort of enquiries a bank would  be 
expected to make in circumstances  where  fraud is suspected. I therefore 
acknowledge that the sort of enquiries Metro couldve  reasonably  been expected to 
have made  in 2014 would not necessarily  have been as detailed  or in depth as good 
industry practice might now require.   
However, it is neither  unfair nor unreasonable to expect  a bank to have double-
checked payment  instructions in 2014 that ought reasonably trigger concerns as to 
whether they are unusual or uncharacteristic for this particular  customer and/or 
account activity. 
At the time Mr S authorised the payment,  Im satisfied there were clear triggers  which  
ought reasonably  to have alerted Metro to unusual or uncharacteristic  activity. The 
payment was for a significant  amount, and to a new payee. Indeed,  I can see that the 
Ref: DRN90649666payment did in fact prompt Metro  to undertake additional checks  by completing an 
HVT form, where the bank itself recorded that the payment  was not in line with the 
usual activity expected from the account. 
I appreciate that Mr S may have  held a private banking  account, which  Metro  says 
caters for more high-net-worth individuals. But the account had only been open  for a 
couple of weeks,  meaning there was little background available to assess whether 
this was a normal  payment  to be made  from Mr Ss account (and indeed given the 
short time the account had been opened,  I think it was right for Metro to make further 
enquiries given  the large sum of money entering and leaving the account). And in 
any event, Metro have  acknowledged on the HVT form that it constituted unusual 
activity for the account, so Im satisfied that as a matter of good practice, they should  
have at least made further enquiries  before processing the payment  request. 
I can see from the HVT form that the member of staff was prompted to provide 
justification for the payment, which  was recorded  as Lending  for purchase. There  
are no further details recorded,  and neither is there  any clarification on what is meant 
by this, but the description does not appear  to correspond with what Mr S now says 
the payment was for (i.e. for his relatively-new friend  to place in the investment fund 
he supposedly managed).  
Given the amount  of time that has passed,  neither party can reliably  give an accurate 
account of what  questions were asked of Mr S before the transaction  was processed.  
I accept its possible that lending for purchase  couldve been  a shorthand 
description by Metro of a more detailed conversation held between the parties. But 
on balance, I consider it more likely than not that this reason was derived from what 
Mr S had said, which would suggest that he told Metro the payment was for a 
different purpose  than intended (i.e. he wasnt lending  the money to T for him to 
purchase something, he thought he was investing it in order  to make  a quick  and 
large return). 
I acknowledge that Metro made some basic-level enquiries about the nature of the 
payment, as is shown  on the HVT form. And as Ive outlined above,  I think there was 
scope for their enquiries to have gone further into establishing the true nature  of the 
payment, even in 2014. In many cases, such an intervention would often  make  a 
difference as to whether  a customer decides  to proceed with the payment, as it can 
cause them to view what theyve been  told by a fraudster from a different and more 
discerning perspective. But in this particular case,  even  if Metro  had made  such  
further enquiries, Im not persuaded it wouldve ultimately prevented Mr S from 
proceeding with the payment. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  been asked by Metro  would have made a difference.  If, for 
example, they had asked Mr S to provide details  such as to whom the money was 
being paid, what  it was for, and whether he was getting anything  in return  for the 
payment. Its not clear  why Mr S was not upfront about the true purpose of the 
payment but instead told them that it was some form of lending. He hasnt said he 
was told to lie by the fraudster, for example, or to create a cover  story. But the 
evidence suggests  that he didnt reveal  the true nature of the payment, which I think  
further suggests that he wouldnt  have  likely  been  forthcoming with any further  details 
if Metro had asked  further questions and provided  further warnings. I accept the 
possibility that Mr S did tell Metro  about the payment  being in some  way linked to a 
Ref: DRN90649667house purchase he was intending to make in the future. But even if he did, in these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded it wouldve led to a more in-depth discussion about  
the sort of investment  he was making, or that any warnings wouldve caused  him to 
consider the situation through a less trusting lens that wouldve ultimately prevented  
him from proceeding.  
Given the lengths T had gone to gain Mr Ss trust  and taking into account  how 
much Mr S said he trusted what he was told by the fraudster  I consider its more  
likely than not that Mr S wouldve proceeded with the payment  in any event. Theres 
little evidence available to show what Mr S was shown about the investment, other  
than a few rudimentary graphs that do not seem  to show a particular fund of an 
investment bank. I accept  its possible that Mr S was duped into investing his money 
solely based on what T was telling him alone.  But given the depth and nature of this 
scam, it appears that he trusted T to such an extent that he was willing to part with a 
significant amount  of money without feeling  it necessary to scrutinise the legitimacy 
of the investment he was making, nor Ts position at the investment bank and 
whether he actually worked there.  So, in this particular situation, I do not think  that 
any further enquiries by Metro would have unearthed what was truly unfolding here, 
and I think its likely  he wouldve chosen  to proceed with the payment in any event.
Even if I were to uphold  this complaint and agree that further enquiries would have 
prevented the payment, I consider that Mr Ss actions (or inactions) in this case have 
at least contributed towards his losses, as I think he ought reasonably  to have been 
suspicious of what he was being told by T.
Mr S was under the impression that he was investing in a fund with a well-known 
investment bank but didnt stop to question why he was having  to transfer the money 
to Ts individual  account instead of through the investment banks official  channels.  
He also didnt appear to question how it was possible to make such  a large amount 
of money in a short space  of time with no risk, as he was told by T. He hadnt been 
presented with any further details or information  about the fund he was going  to 
invest in, other than a few rudimentary  graphs which, as Ive outlined above, do not 
appear to correspond with a particular fund of an investment  bank. 
I appreciate that T had built up a longstanding  relationship with Mr S, and that a 
strong level of trust had been cultivated. But looking  at what the hypothetical 
reasonable person wouldve done  in the same situation, I think most people would 
find the circumstances of the investment  suspicious,  if not implausible.  So, even if I 
were to uphold this case, I consider  that Mr S would  be held partly responsible as 
well, to a large extent, for the losses he is claiming. However, for the reasons already 
outlined, I do not think that Metro can fairly and reasonably  be held liable for any of 
Mr Ss losses in these circumstances as  despite  their failures to ask sufficiently 
probing questions  about an unusual, uncharacteristic and large payment to a new 
payee  I dont think any further  intervention on their part wouldve ultimately 
prevented the losses from materialising. 
Aside from the lack of evidence and nature of the scam here, there  are also various 
other inconsistencies and unsatisfactory explanations present in this case  that 
reinforce the reasons  why I cannot  uphold it in Mr Ss favour. For example, he says 
he reported the fraud to both Metro and Barclays (the receiving bank of the funds)  
not long after he had made  the payment but said that neither firm were willing to help 
him. 
Ref: DRN90649668However, neither  Metro  nor Barclays have any record of any fraud being  reported. Mr 
S says that he visited Metro branches and called  their fraud department  but was just 
placed on hold and passed around from person to person. He hasnt said what  the 
outcome of that call was, however, and has also said that he routinely  approached 
both banks over the course of the next three years. I accept  its possible  that what Mr 
S is saying  is true. But in this case,  there  are two separate  firms that have been 
unable to corroborate his version of events, with both saying  they have no record  of 
any fraud being reported until 2018.  So, I find it unlikely that neither of those banks  
would have any record of Mr S reporting  such a significant fraud, particularly when he 
says he routinely approached them about it over the course of three years.
Mr S also says he reported the matter to the police in 2014, as well as Action Fraud. 
We asked him to provide evidence of him having reported it at the time, but he has 
not been able to provide  any. I acknowledge he has since  provided emails from the 
police, as well as an Action Fraud reference number. But the email from the police is 
dated 2017, and the Action Fraud reference  number has no date assigned  to it either. 
Again, I accept that Mr S may well have  reported it to the relevant authorities at the 
time. But he has not been able to produce any persuasive evidence to substantiate 
his version of events,  which casts  some doubt on his reliability  as an historian of fact. 
Im also conscious that a significant amount of time has passed since the transaction  
took place and when the circumstances of this complaint were first referred to the 
bank and/or this service,  so I cant ignore the possibility that Mr Ss memory may 
have faded over that period. 
As Ive already  mentioned,  this case has not been  easy to decide,  and its one that I 
consider to be very finely balanced. But while I sympathise with the significant 
amount of money  Mr S has lost through what appears to have been  a cruel and 
sophisticated scam, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to support upholding 
this case for the reasons Ive already  set out. So, I do not consider it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold Metro liable for his losses in this particular set of circumstances.
I invited both parties to submit any further  comments and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Metro accepted my findings  and had nothing  further to add, but Mr S 
disagreed. In response, he gave more  detail about  the circumstances in which he came  to 
be in possession of the £290,000, as well as the difficult personal circumstances he found  
himself in around this time. 
Mr S reiterated that he did report the fraud  to Metro and Barclays  at the time, but that 
nobody took him seriously. He also provided a letter from Action Fraud from 2014  to 
demonstrate that he did report the matter to the police at the time. Mr S further explained 
that T is a known fraudster to the police  and has targeted others  in the past. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also carefully  considered everything 
Mr S has said in his response to my provisional decision,  but Ive still decided not to uphold  
it.
I can now see that Mr S did in fact report the fraud  to Action  Fraud in 2014, as he has 
provided correspondence from them dated  in December  2014 with his reference number. He 
Ref: DRN90649669has also provided recordings  of discussions he had in branch  with both Metro and Barclays 
about the fraud, but I note these  are from March 2018, so there is still nothing  to substantiate 
his claims that he reported the matter to Metro  in 2014 when he realised hed been  
scammed.
Im grateful  to Mr S for providing clarification in this regard and for providing this further  
evidence. But having considered everything again,  it still doesnt  change my conclusion that 
Metro cannot  fairly be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. Im still not persuaded 
that any further enquiries or intervention on their part wouldve made any difference  or have 
ultimately prevented  the loss, for the reasons already  set out in detail in my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate that Mr S did seemingly report the matter to Action Fraud in 2014. But it still 
doesnt change  the fact that beforehand, the fraudster had seemingly gained  Mr Ss trust to 
such an extent that I think  he wouldve proceeded with the payment in any event, even in the 
face of further  questions  from Metro about the nature of the payment. Ive seen nothing that 
has changed my conclusions in this regard,  so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I realise this will be a significant disappointment to Mr S, especially after having waited 
patiently for my decision, and I sympathise with the difficult circumstances he has endured 
both before and after the scam.  But for the reasons set out above, I will not be directing 
Metro to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2021.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9064966