K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) increased  her overdraft 
and approved a loan which she couldnt afford.
background
Miss W had a current account with NatWest  and in May 2014 she successfully applied  for a 
£150 overdraft.  Miss W made  a further  two successful  applications  the following week  
increasing the overdraft  to £600.  Over the next two months Miss W made  20 more 
applications to NatWest to increase her overdraft  further, all of which were declined.  
In the successful overdraft applications  Miss W gave her income as £1200  per month but 
wasnt asked for any information  on her expenses.  NatWest told us the overdraft approval 
system was automated  and factored in information  they held about  Miss W and information 
held by two credit agencies, before approving her overdraft. The credit report Miss W 
provided our service shows that at the time of her overdraft applications, she had several 
payday loans  in arrears and three defaults  of over £500. 
A few years later, between January and March  2017  Miss W successfully applied to increase 
her overdraft to £800. This was done  gradually through  three separate  applications. 
And Miss W gave her income as between £1200-£1300 per month and declared her 
mortgage/rent commitment to be between  £270-£550.  In all applications she said she had no 
credit cards or loan repayments. NatWest told us their system then carried  out similar 
checks before approving  these applications. 
Over the following months Miss W made  several  further overdraft applications which  were  
declined. In July 2017 she then successfully  applied for a £1000 loan with NatWest.  
The loan was to be repaid  over two years at a cost of £54.67 a month. As part of the loan 
application, Miss W told NatWest she earned £1150  a month,  paid £50 a month rent and had 
no credit  cards or loan repayments. But the credit  report Miss W provided our service shows 
that by 2017, shed  defaulted on two other accounts. Although  she had also paid off some of 
her debt.
Miss W struggled  to meet her monthly  repayments and fell into arrears. She defaulted  on her 
loan in April 2018  and on her overdraft in June 2018. 
In 2019 Miss W complained to NatWest. Miss W thought  the lending  in 2014 and 2017 was 
irresponsible and unaffordable because she was in financial difficulties at the time.  
NatWest didnt uphold  Miss Ws complaint and said theyd  carried out appropriate checks  to 
make sure the 2017 loan was affordable. Miss W didnt agree and so she brought her 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator asked  NatWest about inconsistencies in Miss Ws loan application. 
For example, the fact her credit file showed  other loans and credit cards  when shed told 
NatWest she didnt  have  any. NatWest said that as part of the 2017 loan application theyd 
identified one credit  card payment and one default Miss W hadnt  declared and factored 
them into their calculations. But said they didnt know about the multiple defaults when they 
approved the loan.  NatWest suggested  it was possible  thered been a delay in adding these 
defaults to Miss Ws credit  file.
Ref: DRN97897862Our investigators view was that the overdraft increases  were  reasonable. But that NatWest 
failed to do sufficient  checks for the 2017  loan which  was unaffordable. They recommended  
NatWest refund all fees and charges  on the loan. But NatWest didnt agree so its been 
brought to me to decide. 
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings  with NatWest and Miss W so they had the
opportunity to make any comments  or provide further evidence.  My provisional findings
were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my findings, Ive taken into account the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys (FCA)  
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which requires lenders to assess whether the person 
applying for credit can afford to make repayments without having to borrow, failing to make  
other credit repayments, or experiencing financial difficulties. 
2014 overdraft approval and increase
First, Ive considered the 2014 overdraft applications. Miss W made  an application for all of 
her overdraft increases.  And there is no evidence Miss W told NatWest she was in financial 
difficulties at this time. But the CONC rules require NatWest to carry out reasonable checks 
to establish if a customer can afford to repay  the credit in a sustainable  way. The checks 
should be proportionate - and this will depend  on several things, for example, the amount to 
be borrowed.
Ive reviewed the credit reports Miss W provided  us and its clear that at that time, she had 
several defaults and had been using payday lenders. All of which  are possible indicators she 
was struggling financially.  But NatWest said they werent aware  of any significant adverse 
reporting. So, Ive looked at whether theres  a reasonable explanation for this.
NatWest carried out whats called batch bureau data checks with two of the major  credit 
reference agencies.  These types of checks dont go into the granular detail of a full credit 
assessment but pull data from the agencies about  the customers  borrowings and how they 
are managing these  debts. NatWest also utilised credit scoring information. Because  the 
system is automated NatWest arent  able to show me the results of the check  exactly  
what they were/were  not aware  of. A 2018  credit  report for Miss W from one of the agencies 
NatWest used does  show these debts and defaults.  That suggests this information may have 
been available to NatWest. But Ive also seen  evidence of the NatWest  scoring  following the 
checks and this indicates the bank  werent  aware of significant adverse reporting. And there  
are a number of reasonable explanations for this discrepancy, including  delays in reporting 
or scoring  calculations within the batch bureau  data. So, on balance, I think  its likely 
NatWest were unaware of the number of recent defaults and reliance on payday  lenders 
because the data they received didnt highlight this.
So, Ive then considered whether the nature  of the credit check  NatWest  did was reasonable
in the circumstances. NatWest used two of the three  main  agencies which is something I
would expect. Theres no requirement on lenders to check more than one agency. But as 
explained above, I would expect checks to be proportionate to the lending.  Its clear they 
Ref: DRN97897863didnt do a detailed  full assessment which may have  given them this information. But this 
was a relatively low amount of credit and an overdraft as opposed to high cost short term 
credit. So, on balance, I dont think it called for additional detailed  checks.  I say this given the 
overdraft applied for was no more than half Miss Ws monthly  income. 
And for similar reasons,  I dont think its unreasonable NatWest asked about Miss Ws 
income but not all of her outgoings. NatWest  had already lifted  data on her monthly 
outgoings towards other debt. So, I dont think it was unreasonable  that NatWest felt they 
had sufficient information to make  a lending decision here.
So overall, I think NatWest took proportionate steps to check affordability. And given what  
Ive said above  about the credit checks, on balance, I dont think NatWest had any evidence  
which suggested the amount they lent was unaffordable for Miss W. For all of these reasons, 
Im dont think NatWests decision to lend to Miss W was irresponsible.  
2017 overdraft increase
Next, I considered the increase of the overdraft by £200 between  January and March 2017. 
Its clear that by this time Miss W had a further  two defaults. But again, the evidence 
NatWest have sent me indicates their system didnt pick up significant adverse reporting. 
NatWest carried out an on the day bureau check of two credit  reference agencies for this 
lending and checked the other main credit  reference agency for behaviours they felt might 
indicate financial difficulties. And given these  checks were  more detailed and the increase in 
lending was smaller, I think these checks were  proportionate.
Once again, it would appear that despite these more detailed  checks, NatWest wasnt  aware 
of Miss Ws complete financial circumstances. I noted NatWest only used one agency to 
specifically check for signs of financial difficulties. Not all lenders report  to all agencies - for 
example, I have also seen  a credit report for Miss W that does not show  most of her 
defaults. So, on balance,  I think this may explain why the detailed checks didnt highlight the 
further defaults. 
Its also clear  that once again  the batch bureau  data clearly didnt place significant weight on 
Miss Ws defaults to suggest  the lending was irresponsible  or unaffordable.  But Ive noted 
that the defaults were several years  old by the time of this application.  And peoples  financial 
circumstances change, so even if NatWest  had been aware of these defaults, I dont think  
these alone were sufficient to suggest this lending was irresponsible.  So, whilst its 
unfortunate that NatWest didnt have the full financial picture, I dont think  they did anything  
wrong here.
Ive then considered  the other  information  NatWest held at this time. NatWest said they 
factored this into their lending decision, something I would expect them to do. So, Ive looked 
at whether they had reason to think the lending  may have been  unaffordable to Miss W or to 
further query the information they received.  
At the beginning  of 2017 Miss W had had an overdraft facility with NatWest for nearly three 
years. Throughout this time, she used nearly all of her overdraft facility every month. 
She had also frequently gone over her limit by relatively small amounts, usually towards the 
end of the month. Miss W would then be paid and her account would go back  into a positive  
balance. Miss W was reliant on her overdraft.  But some  customers do choose to operate 
their accounts in this way, and Ive noted Miss W was meeting her overdraft fees. So, whilst 
Ref: DRN97897864Miss W was carrying debt, she also appears  to have  been managing it. This isnt enough for 
me to say NatWest should have realised she was struggling financially. Ive also considered 
the fact that this increase  in Miss Ws overdraft facility may have  enabled her to avoid the 
fees she incurred  through  exceeding  her limit. And this would seem to be a fair measure in 
the circumstances, providing the lending was affordable.
Miss W told NatWest  her income was between £1200-£1300 per month and declared her 
mortgage/rent commitment to be between  £270,  later increasing to £550.  She also said she 
had no debt or credit card repayments.  Based on the information she provided,  Im satisfied  
NatWests lending decision does  not seem unreasonable.  And even taking into account  
some payment towards  existing debt identified through the credit  search, I dont think  
NatWest had reason  to think a £200 increase was necessarily unaffordable.  I say this based 
on the amounts  Miss W told us she was paying towards her debt which  were  about £60 a 
month. Ive also noted she wasnt at the credit limit on any of her existing credit cards. 
So, the review  of this existing  agreed  lending wouldnt have indicated Miss W was in 
financial difficulties. 
Im aware Miss W has since informed us about  other expenses  in her life at the time -
including having  to go abroad to care for a relative.  But Ive no evidence  she made NatWest 
aware of this. And so, I cant say they acted unreasonably in not taking this into account.
2017 loan
Finally, Ive thought  about the 2017  loan. Again, Ive got no information Miss W made the 
bank aware of any financial difficulties by this time.  But NatWest still wasnt  aware  of 
Miss Ws complete financial circumstances  they identified only one default  from 2013. 
So, Ive considered if the checks were  proportionate  to the lending.  This was a £1000 loan 
which required regular monthly payments.  So, it was a different type of commitment from the 
previously approved overdraft applications. And NatWest didnt do a detailed full 
assessment. But they use batch  bureau data from two agencies  and check  the third credit 
reference agency for factors  that might indicate  financial difficulties, including defaults. 
For the reasons  Ive already given,  I dont think its NatWests fault that this check didnt 
highlight all of Miss Ws defaults  and financial history. Taking into account  the sum borrowed 
and the required  monthly repayments,  the banks assessment  appears  to have been based 
on appropriate checks and carried out responsibly.
NatWest also asked  Miss W questions about her income and expenditure  including  her 
rent commitments  other  credit. Miss W didnt disclose any other debt.  But NatWest said they 
identified an undisclosed  credit card repayment  of £22 in their credit checks and factored this 
into their calculations regarding Miss Ws disposable income. And given the information 
Miss W provided,  that she earned £1150 a month and paid only £50 in rent, this affordability 
assessment seems reasonable. NatWest  have shown  me that theyve taken into account 
reasonable living costs in these calculations and identified Miss W had £689 a month 
disposable income. I can see why the bank would deem a monthly repayment of £54.67  a 
month was affordable based on this information.
NatWest said they also considered the information they held about  Miss W. This is 
something Id expect them to do, based  on CONC requirements. Miss W says she was 
actually paying  around £55 towards her debt at this time. But even based on this information, 
I dont think this loan would be calculated as unaffordable. Ive also noted Miss W didnt only 
bank with NatWest, so not all of these payments would necessarily have been identifiable. 
Ref: DRN97897865Ive also considered the way in which Miss W had used her overdraft in the months prior to 
taking out the loan.  Its clear Miss W utilised her increased overdraft, but this is something  
NatWest would have  expected her to do given theyd made  this lending available  to her. 
Miss W did go over her limit towards  the end of the month on more than one occasion. And I 
appreciate this could  have  indicated  Miss W was struggling to manage her finances. But she 
only went over her limit by small amounts for a few days on both occasions. And I dont think  
this alone is sufficient to indicate the lending was irresponsible. I say this taking into 
consideration the information NatWest held regarding  Miss Ws disposable income.
Ive considered the concerns our investigator  raised about how low Miss Ws rent was. 
Its clear Miss Ws rent had lowered substantially in the months  between  her overdraft 
application and her loan application.  And I recognise  £50 is not typical  of a private rental 
contribution. But everyones personal  circumstances are different, and a consumers rent 
can vary for a number  of reasons  those living with relatives may be paying less. 
Miss W has confirmed  to our service that this figure was accurate at the time. So, there 
wouldnt have been anything in Miss Ws finances  that should  have alerted NatWest to a 
discrepancy here. Miss W has since explained shed reduced the amount she was 
contributing to the rent because she was struggling to afford it. So, there were underlying 
financial difficulties at the heart of this lower amount. But NatWest  calculated Miss W 
disposable income as over £650,  which means  there was also scope for a significant 
increase in her rental commitments whilst still ensuring the loan was affordable. Given  this, 
Im afraid I dont think NatWest acted  unreasonably  in not questioning  this further. 
So overall, I think NatWest took proportionate steps to check affordability and the evidence  
available to the bank didnt indicate  the lending was unaffordable. For all of these reasons, 
Im dont think NatWests decision to lend to Miss W was irresponsible.  And I dont think they 
did anything wrong  here.  
response to my provisional  findings
NatWest had no further information to provide in response to my findings. 
Miss W provided  some further  evidence for me to review. She sent our service three 
documents detailing her financial  difficulties. But all of these were from November 2017  
onwards. And whilst Im really sorry to hear that Miss W was having such  a difficult time,  Im 
afraid this doesnt  change  my decision. This is because I have no evidence this information 
was available  to NatWest at the time they made  their lending decisions. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, whilst  I appreciate  this will come  as 
a disappointment to Miss W, Im not persuaded to change  my findings  here.  
Ref: DRN97897866my final decision
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9789786