K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 1998 and a further advance in 2002. Mr M says Coventry  Building  Society  
(Coventry) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was told he wouldnt get the mortgage  and the further advance unless he took 
the PPI. Both policies  were sold during meetings between Mr M and Coventry. Mr M says 
that he wasnt given  an option to take the policies.  As I cant  know exactly  what  was 
discussed with the advisor when he applied for his mortgage and the further advance, Ive 
looked at the mortgage  documents Coventry has provided as well as thought about Mr Ms 
comments and what I know about  these kinds of sales in general.  
On the mortgage  application for 1998,  I can see that PPI has been selected  for 
unemployment only and would cover Mr Ms mortgage repayment for up to 9 months. So I 
think its likely that Mr M discussed the option of PPI at the time and he chose the cover 
which suited his circumstances  best.  
Looking at the documents I have been given from the further  advance  Mr M took out on his 
mortgage in 2002; I can see he selected  to have accident and sickness  cover as well as 
unemployment and he got the first three months of the policy  for free. Again this leads me to 
think Mr M discussed the best option for his circumstances  at the time.  
So, taking everything Ive seen  into account,  I think Coventry made  it clear  that Mr M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Coventry recommended the policies to Mr M. So it had to check  they were right for him. 
Looking at Mr M circumstances at the time it seems  like he had a need for the cover.  Mr M 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limits on the MPPI cover. Mr M says he would 
have received sick pay benefits from his employer. But the first policy taken out in 1998 
covered him for unemployment only.  The 2002  policy wouldve paid out alongside his 
employee benefits and wouldve also covered him if he was made redundant. 
From what  Mr M has told us, I cant see he had any other means  of making his mortgage 
repayments. So it seems  they had a need  for the policy. Mr M was borrowing funds against a 
large and long term financial commitment, which was secured on his home. So I think having 
the security that his mortgage repayments  would be made if Mr M was unable to work  would  
have been important to him.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Coventry  gave 
Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI on 
both occasions  - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN98697542explained above - it looks  like the policies  would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. 
It also looks like the policies were  affordable  for him. So I dont think better information about 
the MPPI  would have  put Mr M off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr M has lost out by anything Coventry might  have  done  wrong.  This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Coventry doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. 
But Coventry will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold,  Coventry  expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because Coventry didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Coventry has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Coventry should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Coventry should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr M the difference  
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Coventry should also pay Mr M 8%* simple  
interest if Mr M paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Ref: DRN98697543Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9869754