K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wouldnt refund payments he says he didnt make  
using his credit card.
background
Mr W says he received  a call from Sainsburys  Bank about  some payments on his account. 
He didnt recognise them but when  he called back he couldnt answer security questions  and 
deal with them. When he received his statement and saw the details he reported a number 
of online  payments totalling £220.84  as fraudulent.
Sainsburys said it couldnt investigate  these payments as Mr W hadnt passed its security  
checks. It sent him £45 in vouchers given the delay in it responding to his complaint about 
not being able to speak  to someone  about his account on the telephone.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the payments refunded 
with eight per cent simple  interest from the date they were made until they were refunded. 
Any related  interest  or charges should be removed as well as any adverse information 
reported to credit reference agencies. Mr W should be paid £150 for the inconvenience 
caused to him. Our investigator said that he made this finding in favour  of Mr W as 
Sainsburys hadnt provided its business file to this service or investigated the fraud. He 
accepted Mr Ws account of what happened.
Sainsburys said it didnt agree and wanted  to explain why it couldnt  proceed with a fraud  
investigation. It wanted to make  clear that it hadnt declined to issue  a refund but hadnt been 
able to consider  this. It hadnt been satisfied that it was speaking  with Mr W on the 
telephone. The letters about his complaint that it had sent hadnt  contained  any secure 
information. If he had provided the identification  requested and spoken with its fraud  team 
then it would have  been in a positon to consider what happened. It had a duty of care to 
make sure any information it reported  about fraud was correct. And it thought that it was 
unreasonable to ask it to make a refund in these circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
background
This service has accepted  that it is dealing with the genuine Mr W and so has investigated a 
complaint referred  by him as within  our jurisdiction. While I understand Sainsburys concerns 
and requirement  to speak to Mr W, I also take into account that it has decided  not to provide 
any information about these transactions or about how it dealt with this complaint. What I 
have seen is a letter and subsequent emails with him and a copy  of the complaint response 
letters to Mr W. My understanding is that the call with Mr W about these payments didnt go 
well and as he couldnt identify himself and there was a concern about fraud on the account 
it blocked the card account.
It has though been  prepared to write  to Mr W about the service aspect of his complaint and it 
stated that it noted  his acceptance of its offer of compensation.  Mr W has also said that it 
has altered the card address  based on his contact, and which  I can see changed on his 
Ref: DRN92489342statements. Sainsburys insists though that it cant accept his fraud  claim in writing not least  
because it doesnt  have signature verification capabilities.
I understand from what Mr W says that some  of his identification documentations are with 
his solicitors and he isnt in a positon  to provide this. I cant  compel him to do so and in the 
same way I cant compel Sainsburys to provide a full business file. So I need  to make my 
decision based on what is now all the evidence that is going to be available  to me.
approach
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 (PSR) in considering  
this complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. 
These disputed payments  were made online  and a consumer wouldnt be liable for an 
unauthorised payment  made in this way unless these related to excepted contracts. And 
also where credit is involved, as is the case here on a credit card, the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 applies  and it states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment 
unless the consumer consented  to someone else having possession of that card. 
Our investigator decided  on a balance of probabilities that these payments were 
authenticated. Under the PSR it is for Sainsburys Bank to prove  this. It has for the reasons 
Ive given above declined to provide any payment logs and show how these payments were  
authenticated. I dont know what information  was collected about  Mr Ws card and any 
security information and whether or not that was correct. I cant  see how providing  that 
information would have required any investigation  with the payees. Sainsburys position 
seems to be that the payments  were authenticated. But Im afraid I cant make that finding 
based on what Ive seen.
I agree  with our investigator that Mr W didnt consent to the payments. I note that they were 
flagged up as out of character by Sainburys. Mr W attempted  to tell it that he didnt  make  
these at the time. He further  wrote  to say he didnt  recognise the payments when he 
received his statement. Hes provided some  evidence  from one of the payee companies 
involved showing that the relevant service paid for abroad was provided to a different 
person. I suspect had Sainsburys received the confirmation it wanted from him then it might  
have accepted these as fraudulent. Based on all the evidence and the consistent account 
provided by Mr W, I dont  find on balance that he consented to these  payments and that they 
were authorised by him.
I cant see that these were excepted contracts  based on the information I have. And they 
were made using a credit  card.  I see no evidence Mr W allowed anyone else to make  these  
payments and so I dont  find he is fairly  responsible for them.
my assessment
I agree  that these  payments should be refunded back  to Mr W and simple interest paid to 
him and any charges refunded in the way recommended by our investigator.
Ive thought carefully about the payment  recommended for inconvenience and distress 
caused. Had Mr W provided  what  Sainsburys considered  to be straightforward  information 
this would likely have  been resolved earlier. As I said above Ive not been  provided with its 
Ref: DRN92489343complaints file and the way it dealt with Mr W when he called. I suspect the position taken on 
both sides had become entrenched.  And Mr W has said to this service there were reasons 
why he couldnt  provide  all this information. 
He didnt receive a response to his complaint for some time and was offered compensation 
for this. Given the delay  he had already referred the complaint to this service.  On the 
evidence available  to me I think that the only way to resolve this was through this service. So 
I will be awarding compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr W.
I know Mr W has told this service he wants to close his account and receive any credit 
balance. If hes not already  done so that will is something he will need  to contact Sainsburys 
about and it can reasonably expect  him to satisfy its security requirements  at that time.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank Plc to:
1)Refund the disputed payments of £220.84.
2)Pay, not credit, simple  interest on these payments  from the date they were debited to 
the date they are refunded.
3)Rework the account so that any interest  or charges applied as a result of these 
payments are removed.
4)Remove any adverse  information reported to credit  reference agencies about Mr W 
in relation to the positon on the account  following these payments.
5)Pay, not credit, Mr W with £150
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9248934