K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr F bought  the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered his 
card in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
It looks like Mr Fs credit  card application  may have been completed in a branch. Because 
the sale was over two decades ago, understandably neither side still has a record of which 
branch that might  have been.  I understand  Mr F would  like to know which  branch it was. But 
I do not think that that is material  to whether the policy  was mis-sold or not.
The application form had a section for PPI, which gave an overview of what it was for. There 
were two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. The option to pay 
for PPI was chosen,  the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr F signed the form to 
confirm his choices.  So I think  that Barclays made Mr F aware he had a choice  about  buying 
the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if he no longer 
recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Barclays  recommended  the PPI to Mr F, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Barclays if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr F, Ive assumed they did. 
That means Barclays had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr F was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations.  He only 
had very limited sick pay through work, whereas the PPI covered him for far longer and 
wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay. And Mr F doesnt seem to have had any other  
significant cover in place in case  he lost his job. So it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful for him.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Mr F about PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it seems  Mr F chose to take out the policy,  which  implies he wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it could  have really been useful for Mr F if something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr F could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put 
him off taking it out.
Ref: DRN97935272Mr F pointed  out that he got a refund for a different PPI policy  that was sold over a decade 
later. I understand why hes raised this. But different policies worked in different ways,  were 
sold using different methods at different times, were suitable for people in different 
circumstances, and so on. So even if one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt  necessarily  mean 
that another  one was, too. We look at each case on its own individual merits, and Ive 
explained above why I dont think that this particular policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793527