K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that a loan she had with The Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) has been 
sold to a third party  who has asked her to repay  the outstanding balance.
background
In 2011 Ms A took out a loan with Co-Op to be repaid over a five year period. In 2014 Ms A 
says she went into a Co-Op branch to change her address and repay  the loan in full, but the 
staff member was unable to locate  the account.
Ms A says that she discussed with the staff member  stopping her payments, as she was 
unsure where  they were  going if they werent  going to Co-Op.  Ms A says she wrote to 
Co-Ops head office at the same time informing them  of this, and as she didnt receive a 
response, she didnt  make any further  payments.
In 2018 Ms A received  a letter from a third party asking about repayment of the account.  
Ms A is unhappy she is now being asked to repay this, as she attempted  to in 2014,  but was 
told that Co-Op were unable to locate the loan.  Due to illness,  Ms A says shes no longer 
able to repay the loan.
Ms A complained to Co-Op and asked them to write off the loan, but they didnt uphold the 
complaint. They were unable to locate any records of Ms A visiting  the branch. As they said 
they hadnt received contact from Ms A, they sold the debt to the third party in December 
2016. However they offered £25 compensation for the way the complaint was initially 
handled.
Ms A was unhappy  with Co-Ops response and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that he was unable to look into the 
handling of the complaint by Co-Op  specifically, so couldnt comment on the £25 
compensation offer. 
He went on to say that he didnt  think Co-Op  had acted unreasonably by selling the loan as 
despite attempted contact from Co-Op, there  were  no records  of Ms A contacting  them and 
no payments had been made.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Firstly whilst I appreciate  Ms A has raised  concerns about the actions taken  by the third 
party since  they bought the debt in 2016,  I wont be commenting on this in my decision. This 
is because the third party is a separate business, so their actions dont form part of this 
complaint against  Co-Op.
Ref: DRN91578372I also wont be commenting on the compensation offered to Ms A solely for Co-Ops handling 
of the complaint. This is because  complaint handling  itself isnt a regulated  activity,  so I cant 
consider it here. But anyway, Ms A appears  to be satisfied with Co-Ops resolution to this 
part of her complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Ms A took out the loan with Co-Op. And theres no 
dispute she hasnt  paid it off.
Ms A said she went in to a Co-Op branch to change the address and clear the outstanding 
loan in full in 2014. But the agent was unable to locate the account. Unfortunately  there 
arent any records which note this. In the absence of any records, I need  to consider all the 
remaining information to decide whether Co-Op have acted unreasonably.
Co-Op have provided information  which  shows  the loan when it is searched  for.  Theres  no 
record or evidence  about  what happened at the meeting  Ms A says took place in 2014, but 
its difficult to see why the loan couldnt  be located  on Co-Ops systems at the time. 
Ms A has also been unable to provide a copy of the letter she sent to head  office  in 2014 
advising she had stopped the loan payments  and asking  to change her address.
The information Ive been provided  shows the last loan payment made was in December 
2013, some  months  before Ms A says she visited the branch.  Co-Op have provided records 
showing they wrote to Ms A a number  of times  following  this, up until they sold the debt in 
December 2016.  These  letters were sent to Ms As former address.
Whilst I understand Ms A says she moved  from this address in 2013,  Co-Op have also 
provided a copy of a letter  they sent to Ms A at her current address in April 2015 when trying  
to locate her. The letter  says that Co-Op believe the address is Ms As current  address and 
asks for confirmation. Whilst Ms A says she didnt receive this, the address is correct  and 
Co-Op havent done anything  unfair in assuming it reached that address.
When Co-Op  didnt  receive a response, they continued to write to the former  address. I dont 
think this was unreasonable as it hadnt  been  confirmed  by Ms A that the address had 
changed.
I should add it was Ms As responsibility to make sure Co-Op had her correct  address. She 
says she told them shed  moved when she went in to the branch in 2014.  But when she 
didnt hear from them  again, its not unreasonable to say she might have checked that her 
new details had been added to Co-Ops  systems.
As Co-Op hadnt received  any payments for the loan since December 2013, and there arent  
any records of contact  from Ms A either  in writing  or at the branch, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Co-Op to sell the loan to a third party.
In summary,  I cant say Co-Op  have acted unfairly in the way they tried to contact Ms A 
before 2016 or in selling  the loan after theyd failed to establish contact with her. And so I 
wont be asking Co-Op  to cancel the loan. 
I understand that Ms A has concerns  about  repaying the loan now,  and Im sorry to hear of 
her circumstances. But the loan is now with a third party, and Co-Op  no longer own the loan.  
So Ms A would need to contact the third party directly in order to discuss  the next steps. 
Ref: DRN91578373Co-Op have quite reasonably explained  this to Ms A.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9157837