K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2002 Mrs M took out PPI with a credit card during a branch meeting. The policy was 
designed to protect  Mrs Ms credit  card payments in the event she couldnt work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policys  basic cost was 78 pence for every  £100 Mrs M owed on the card. And it would 
pay out a monthly  benefit of 10% of what was owed for up to 12 months.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought it likely BoS made  it 
clear Mrs M had a choice about PPI. And there  was nothing to suggest the policy was wrong 
or unsuitable for her.
They went  on to say that BoS had offered to pay back some of what  Mrs M paid for PPI as a 
gesture of goodwill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
BoS has provided a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application. And I can see here there is a 
cross marked in the PPI section of the application  it said please mark the relevant 
section if you want these  services - to indicate  she wanted to take it out. Im mindful that 
the cross  is printed on the form and not handwritten. But based on what  we know of BoS 
sales process at the time, Mrs M wouldve likely been asked by the adviser if she wanted 
PPI during the meeting  and her answer wouldve been  reflected in the printed form.
On the basis that Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different 
happened in Mrs Ms case  and because she signed the overall credit card application  
I think she chose to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover   for 
example those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances - and despite her sick pay benefits she seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.
Ref: DRN91785342I can see Mrs M says she had some savings and a critical illness  policy.  But PPI isn't a 
direct comparison  for critical illness cover. And I dont think the existence  of some 
savings is enough  for me to say PPI was unsuitable  and it was wrong  for BoS to have  
recommended it  it couldve allowed those savings to be held back or used for other 
ongoing expenditure at what  would likely be a difficult and/or uncertain time.   
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think Mrs M has lost out as a result of having PPI. So BoS doesnt need 
to refund everything  Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back some 
of the cost of the PPI and I understand it has already paid this to Mrs M. I dont think it needs 
to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9178534