K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Inchcape Retail Limited Inchcape misrepresented  a finance  
agreement.
background
Mr J took receipt of a used car in July 2018. He says that the dealership agreed to use his 
£3,000 deposit directly  towards his new hire purchase scheme that funded  the vehicle. And 
he says he was assured  that none of the deposit would be used to pay off the £1,075 owed 
on the vehicle  he was trading in. He says that the dealership agreed  to pay off what  was 
owed on the old car if Mr J purchased a GardX product: which he did. But he says hes now 
realised that wasnt the case  and Inchcape  included the balance of his old agreement in his 
new finance arrangement.  Hed therefore like Inchcape to refund the £1,075.
Inchcape disputed the allegation but when  Mr J referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator attempted to contact them for further  details  they didnt return  her calls or emails.  
In total I can see that our adjudicator attempted  to contact the business on 13 times  over a 
period of eight  and a half months. On occasion  she was promised a call back.  But 
unfortunately no response was ever received.
So our adjudicator provided  her opinion on Mr Js complaint and in the absence of any 
evidence from Inchcape she was persuaded that Mr Js version of events was probably 
correct. To resolve the matter she suggested  that Inchcape pay Mr J £1,075 which  was the 
money they paid towards settling Mr Js previous deal but that theyd promised not to.
Mr J accepted this resolution but Inchcape didnt respond. So the complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view on this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr J acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should not have been misrepresented and if Mr J was told something that was incorrect  and 
that led him to agree  to the finance agreement Id think it fair to ask Inchcape to do 
something to put things  right.
Unfortunately, Ive not been provided with any response from the business with regard to this 
complaint. Ive endeavoured to make  contact with them  but to no avail and in the meantime  
Mr J has been understanding and patient whilst waiting for a final decision on this matter.
It would be unfair to keep  him waiting any longer: hes already been waiting many months.
In the absence of any information  from Inchcape  I only have Mr Js version of events to 
consider. And having done  that Im persuaded that its most likely Inchcape did agree not to 
Ref: DRN99977462use any of the deposit  to contribute to the balance  of Mr Js previous account. I persuaded 
that if they hadnt agreed to this Mr J wouldnt have  accepted the deal.  So Its therefore fair 
that they refund the £1,075.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Inchcape Retail Limited  to 
pay Mr J £1,075 to resolve his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9997746