K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited acted irresponsibly in agreeing to a loan 
that was unaffordable for her.
background
Mrs N applied for a two year loan for £2,000 from Oakbrook. She said in her application that 
she earned £18,000 per year and that the purpose of the loan was for home improvements. 
Unfortunately, shortly after the loan was taken out Mrs N began to miss payments. Oakbrook 
defaulted the loan four months  after it began.  
Mrs N complained. She said the loan was unaffordable and should never have been lent. 
Oakbrook said it relied on the information shed  given  about her income, and on a credit 
check it did with one of the credit  reference agencies, to decide if the loan was affordable. It 
thought it was, and it didnt  think it had done  anything wrong in agreeing to lend.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, and so Mrs N asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it. I issued a provisional  decision  indicating that I intended to uphold 
the complaint.  I said:
Oakbrook says that in making  its lending decision, it relied on the information Mrs N 
gave it about her income, and also on the checks it made with a credit reference 
agency.
I note that in this case Oakbrook didnt ask about  Mrs Ns outgoings, only her 
income. Theres no absolute requirement  that it do so  a lender must make 
proportionate checks, the substance of which can vary from case  to case  and lender 
to lender.
In this case, I think the checks Oakbrook  says it did make should  have given it cause  
for concern about whether the lending was affordable, however.
Mrs N has provided a copy  of her credit record, which  Oakbrook says it consulted.  
The copy  I have is a recent one, which is obviously different from the one Oakbrook 
saw. But since the credit record goes back six years, its possible to reconstruct 
much of what Oakbrook  would have seen.
Mrs Ns credit record contains a number of entries that, in my view, should  have 
given Oakbrook cause  for concern. It shows that:
Mrs N had been in arrears on one credit  card for almost two years  leading up 
to the application, and had been consistently over her limit for that time;
She had defaulted  on a payday  loan six months before this loan was taken 
out, and had taken out up to three other  payday  loans  in the year leading up 
to the application; and
She had been  in arrears on her mortgage  for at least  four years  before this 
loan was taken  out.
There are other entries that should also have  given Oakbrook cause for concern as 
well. To my mind, Mrs Ns credit record shows someone who is struggling with a 
Ref: DRN93541592range of debts.  So while   based purely on her income  a loan of £2,000 may have 
seemed affordable, I dont think in reality it was. Had Oakbrook looked properly at the 
credit record  it says it considered, or asked further  questions about her expenditure  
including on the other debts it showed  she was struggling with  I think its very 
unlikely it would have  lent. I note that this loan fell behind and was defaulted within a 
few months of it being taken, which supports my view that it wasnt affordable.
I therefore intend to uphold  this complaint. I need to decide what Oakbrook should do 
to put matters right. I dont think it would be fair simply to write  off the loan.  Thats 
because, although it should  never  have been  lent, the fact is it was  and Mrs N has 
received and had the benefit of the money  that was lent. However, I dont think 
Oakwood should charge interest  on the sum it lent, and should  re-work the loan 
account accordingly. It should  remove  the default  and all other entries relating to the 
loan from her credit record. It should  come  to an agreement with Mrs N about how 
the capital is to be repaid over time in an affordable way  and Mrs N will need to 
discuss her finances with Oakbrook so that an agreement  can be reached.  
And finally, I think Mrs N was caused some distress  by the impact of the lending  and 
the subsequent default  and while her wider  financial difficulties mean  it would have 
been a stressful  time anyway,  I think  Oakbrooks lending decision contributed to that. 
In my view, it would be fair for Oakbrook to pay Mrs N £250 compensation to reflect 
that added  stress and upset  and pay it to her direct, not use it to offset  the debt 
(unless she chooses to use it that way).
Mrs N accepted my provisional  decision.  Oakbrook said it did assess affordability,  taking into 
account various factors including the amount  of credit Mrs N already had, her application 
and the level of repayments. It considers  it made proportionate checks.  Nevertheless,  it 
agreed with the outcome I proposed  except  that it didnt think  the loan should be removed 
from Mrs Ns credit  file. It said if it did so, there  was a risk other lenders wouldnt be aware of 
it and be more likely to grant Mrs N further  lending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also reconsidered  my provisional  
decision in light of the responses  to it.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.  I agree  that Oakbrook  is only required to make  
proportionate checks. Checking of the credit record was one of the checks  it says it makes.   
But in light of whats on Mrs Ns credit file, which Oakbrook had at the time, I still think it 
ought to have concluded that it wouldnt be responsible or affordable to lend to her. 
That being  the case, it follows that the loan should  never have existed. My aim in upholding 
a complaint is to put the complainant back in the position they would  have been  in had 
nothing gone wrong  which,  in this case, means  that Mrs N would never  have had the loan. 
Ive explained  why I dont think it would be right simply  to write it off. But I also dont  think  it 
would be fair to leave  it on her credit file showing as a defaulted loan with an outstanding 
balance when it should never  have  existed in the first place. I take the point about other 
lenders having  a true picture of Mrs Ns difficult finances  if she applies for future credit  
but proportionate checks are likely  to show many  of the same  issues  Oakbrook should have 
seen. 
Ref: DRN93541593my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Oakbrook Finance Limited to:
Re-work the loan account to remove all interest charged on it, and not charge interest 
going forwards, and apply any payments made  to date to capital;
Remove all evidence  of the loan from Mrs Ns credit records;
Use its best efforts  to come to an agreement with Mrs N about sustainable and 
affordable repayment of the remaining capital; and
Pay (not credit to the loan) Mrs N £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9354159