K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining about the amount  of charges  Action  365 Ltd have charged after he 
cancelled his commercial  vehicle insurance  policy.
background
In October  2018, Mr H took out a commercial  vehicle insurance through Action  365  a 
broker. He also took out the following additional  policies:
21 day Replacement  Vehicle  Hire 
Excess Protection 
Motor Legal  Protection
In December 2018, Mr H called to cancel the insurance policy as he was scrapping his car. 
Action 365 advised  him that he would  still owe £207.81. Mr H didnt think  this was fair as he 
said he was being  asked to pay almost £380 for a policy hed had less than three months. 
Action 365 explained that the insurer had calculated  the premium  on a pro-rata  basis.  But it 
said that he wasnt entitled to a refund of the premiums hed paid for the above  additional 
policies. And it said that it had charged him a £75 cancellation fee in line with the terms of 
the policy. Finally it also said that it had initially  charged him a £10 administration fee for 
setting up the policy and a further  £35 fee for a mid-term adjustment  it had carried  out.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He didnt  dispute  the cancellation fee, but he thought it was 
unfair to charge the full premium for the additional  policies.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She said that shed listened to the telephone 
call when Action 365 set up the policy.  And she said that it hadnt explained to him that there  
was a £10 fee for setting up the policy. So she thought it should waive this charge. But she 
said that it had explained about the remaining charges what  it would  charge  if the policy was 
cancelled after the cooling off period. 
Action 365 accepted the investigators opinion. Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings 
as he says he didnt  know about  them and he thinks he was tricked into taking out these 
policies. And he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator and Ill now explain why.
Mr H is unhappy with the amount hes been  charged  to cancel the insurance policy. I should  
first state that Action 365 was acting as an insurance broker.  So it wasnt  responsible  for the 
amount the insurers has charged for the insurance policy and the additional option policies 
he took out. Its role as a broker was to explain the charges to Mr H and set out what  he 
would be charged  if he cancelled the insurance  policy.
Action 365 has already  agreed to waive the £10 fee for setting up the new policy,  so I dont 
need to make any finding on whether  it was entitled to charge this or not. Following this, 
Action 365 says that Mr H owes it £197.81,  which I think is fair.
Ref: DRN90229522Mr H says that he did know  anything  about the additional products  he took out. But I listened 
to call when he took out the insurance  policy and the call handler went through  a number of 
optional policies and Mr H discussed these policies with the call handler and asked a 
number of questions  about them. Following this, he chose to take out the products he took 
out. But he declined  the breakdown cover. So Im satisfied that he was aware he had a 
choice about whether  to take out these products. And he chose to take them out.
The call handler also explained  in the telephone call that the premiums on the above 
products werent  refundable if he cancelled  after the policy after the cooling off period. Im 
satisfied that Action 365 did what it was required to do in making Mr H aware of this before 
he took out the insurance policy. So I cant say that Action 365 is required to waive  any of 
these charges.
I can see that Action 365 charged Mr H a £35 fee for having  to add an SP10 fixed  penalty to 
the policy that Mr H hadnt  disclosed when he took out the policy.  The terms of Mr Cs 
contract with Action 365 set out that it can charge a £35 fee to make  any changes  to the 
contract to cover  its administration costs.  And I think this was fair.
Finally, Ive thought  about the £75 cancellation fee Action 365 has charged.  This is in line 
with what insurers/brokers generally charge  to cancel  the policy. And I think its a fair charge 
to reflect  the various  administrative  tasks that Action 365 have to carry out when cancelling 
the insurance policy.
So I dont  think Action 365 needs to refund anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I think  Action 365 Ltds  offer to 
refund the amount Mr H owed by £10 was fair. And I make no further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9022952