K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with refunding her for a number of 
fraudulent transactions.
background
Mrs Ns account was used for a number of fraudulent transactions for over £3570. She says 
most of the transactions were refunded but a number were not. Mrs N says she made a 
number of calls to Barclays  about  this and was caused stress  and inconvenience by the 
delay. Mrs N says she eventually received all but one refund.
Barclays apologised to Mrs N for how it dealt with this matter. It accepts it told Mrs N it was 
still investigating some  of the transactions but now accepts that was a mistake. Barclays  has 
offered to pay £75 compensation and also make a gesture of goodwill payment of £72.75  in 
respect of the outstanding transaction. 
Mrs N had brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator thought overall  the compensation 
offer didnt go far enough and should be £150 in addition  to the payment of £72.75. He 
thought Barclays  had given conflicting information  to us and Mrs N about the delay and that 
Mrs N waited about 33 days to receive most of the money back.
Mrs N accepts the adjudicators view.
Barclays doesnt accept  the adjudicators view and has asked  that it be reviewed. It says its 
offer of compensation is fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
There is no doubt that Barclays delayed refunding Mrs N all of her money. Im satisfied  that 
Barclays gave us and Mrs N conflicting  information about that reason. I can see it told Mrs N 
that it was still investigating some  of the transactions. But its told us they should all have 
been refunded  at the same time. So I have no doubt  in those circumstances that Mrs N was 
caused additional stress and inconvenience  over and above having to complain  in the first 
place about the fraud.  And I accept  that she made a number of calls to Barclays about this 
matter.
For those reasons I think Barclays should pay a total of £150 compensation. I think that 
amount fairly reflects whats  happened  here and how long it took for Mrs N to be refunded 
most of her money. I dont know why £72.75 was also not refunded  and agree with the 
parties that Mrs N should receive that money  back as well. I also agree with Mrs N that its 
surprising that these transactions didnt raise  fraud  concerns with Barclays. I say that as all 
of the payments were to the same company for taxi fares, and all in two countries some 
distance apart yet some  made on the same day.
Ref: DRN96816952my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs 
N compensation of £150 and in addition £72.75 for the outstanding transaction refund  
making a total of £222.75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681695