K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds Bank) have passed  her account, including  
sensitive information  about her health, to a third party without her permission. 
Background
Mrs P has an outstanding overdraft debt with Lloyds Bank. In late 2017, Mrs P contacted  
Lloyds Bank  as she was having difficulty maintaining  her account due to an illness  which had 
left her unable to work. It was noted  that Mrs P had no affordability at the time and as a 
result, Lloyds Bank waived all pre-notified and accrued charges on the account and a 
repayment plan was agreed.  
In order to assist Mrs P further, Lloyds Bank had to send her a final demand letter asking for 
the debt to be repaid as they needed  to close the account in order to be able to pass  the 
debt to their recoveries team.
Mrs P contacted Lloyds  Bank shortly after her account had been  closed to ask how she 
could continue to make payments to the account.  Mrs P then had an extensive  conversation  
with a member of the Customer  Priority Team (CPT) about her health  and working  
arrangements which  resulted  in a hold being placed  on the account.
The next time Mrs P heard anything about her account was when she received a letter  from 
a third-party agency  in late 2018  advising that the management of her account  had been 
transferred to them from Lloyds Bank with immediate effect. 
Mrs P called Lloyds Bank to complain about her account being  transferred as she was 
unhappy about her personal data, especially information about her health,  being shared. 
Lloyds Bank  did not uphold  Mrs Ps complaint, but they arranged for her account to be 
transferred back to them. 
Once the account was returned,  Lloyds Bank discussed Mrs Ps current situation with her 
and agreed to put the account on hold until mid-2019. Mrs P called to update Lloyds Bank on 
her situation  before the hold was due to run out. Lloyds Bank requested  medical evidence 
from Mrs P, within 60 days, for her to continue to be able to receive the protection  from legal 
action that their CPT provides.
Mrs P contacted our service as she remained unhappy with Lloyds Bank response to her 
complaint. She told us she would either  like her debt to be written off or for a reasonable 
repayment plan to be agreed. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Lloyds Bank had acted unreasonably in passing  the account  
to the third-party  agency. Mrs P disagreed and asked for her case  to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ps complaint at the end of April,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld in part. I said:
Ref: DRN93816442Lloyds Bank  were entitled to transfer  the management of Mrs Ps account to the 
third-party agency, in line with their privacy notice, and I cannot say that they have 
broken any rules in doing so. However,  Lloyds Bank had an obligation  to treat Mrs P 
sensitively and to be flexible in relation to her needs, so I need  to consider whether it 
was appropriate  for the account  to be transferred  to the third-party and the impact 
this change wouldve  had on Mrs P.
Mrs P provided Lloyds Bank with a lot of detail about  her illness  and I think Lloyds 
Bank treated her sympathetically  when  they first became aware of her situation. They 
waived all pre-notified and accrued charges following the initial call in late 2017 and 
then placed a hold on the account when Mrs P advised them  there had been no 
change to her situation in early 2018.  However, there was no further  contact between  
Mrs P and the CPT until Mrs P received  a letter  from the third-party agency in late 
2018.
Lloyds Bank  had a duty of care to contact Mrs P to discuss what  was going to 
happen to her account once the hold had expired. They did not contact Mrs P and 
the next time she heard anything in relation to her account was when she received 
the letter from the third-party.
Lloyds Bank  have told us that the third-party  act as their agent with the aim to getting 
a long-term repayment  plan set up for the customer and to offer any additional 
support to them. Having read the letter that was sent to advise Mrs P of the change 
in management,  I think the tone of this letter was impersonal and abrupt especially 
considering Mrs Ps personal  circumstances. And I can understand why she wouldve 
been distressed  to receive it. 
Mrs P had divulged sensitive personal information  to Lloyds Bank.  As far as she was 
aware, her account was on hold until she was able to start making repayments. 
Lloyds Bank  had not contacted her to advise that the hold had expired and this letter 
was unexpected from Mrs Ps perspective. I think Lloyds Bank could have been more 
sympathetic in their approach to the account  being transferred. They should have 
considered Mrs Ps individual circumstances and spoken to her about the 
management of her account  before  taking  any further action.
Mrs P believed she was providing  the CPT with this personal information about  her 
health in confidence. Even though  the third-party was part of the Lloyds group of 
companies, I dont think that Lloyds  Bank  acted fairly in transferring her account 
without any prior discussion with Mrs P or that it was reasonable for them to send this 
letter to Mrs P given her specific circumstances. It is for this reason that I am minded 
to part uphold the complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs P has found herself  in a very difficult situation having  an illness 
which has prevented  her from working  and I understand that she would either  like her 
debt to be written off or to set up a reasonable repayment plan. 
It would be unfair for me to ask Lloyds Bank  to write  off the debt for several reasons. 
Lloyds Bank  have asked Mrs P to provide medical  evidence of her illness which she 
has not yet done and although I understand her reasons, I dont think Lloyds Bank 
can fully assess her situation without this information.
Ref: DRN93816443Additionally, Lloyds Bank have arranged for several  holds to be placed on Mrs Ps 
account to allow time for her circumstances  to improve.  They  also quickly transferred 
the management of her account back to their CPT when  they realised the distress 
their actions had caused  to Mrs P. So, I think they have treated Mrs P fairly and 
sympathetically since she contacted them about  the letter. 
I think Lloyds Bank  should resolve matters with Mrs P by agreeing a fair and 
reasonable repayment plan with her. Mrs P will need to work with Lloyds Bank  and 
provide the information they require  to prevent the debt from being passed on again. 
If Mrs P isnt happy with the repayment plan that is agreed then she can, of course, 
consider putting  in a further complaint to us.
Although I think Lloyds Bank have been somewhat understanding about  Mrs Ps 
circumstances, I do think they should have done more to help Mrs P in the months  
leading up to the management of her account being transferred to the third-party. 
There was no further effort  made  to contact Mrs P after the hold expired to try and 
put a repayment plan in place nor was there  any discussion about  the possibility of 
the management of her account being  passed to a third party. For these  reasons,  I 
am minded to ask Lloyds Bank to make a payment of £300 to Mrs P for the distress  
this matter has caused her when  she is already  unwell.   
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence, before I made a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having  sent me anything further to take into 
consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this decision confirms my 
provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Lloyds Bank  Plc to: 
make  a payment  of £300 to Mrs P for the distress she experienced and;
set up an appropriate repayment plan for the outstanding balance  of her account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Tara Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9381644