K822xComplaint
Miss M complains that Elderbridge Limited  misled her about the amount she owed for a 
secured loan.
background 
Miss M took out a secured loan with a lender,  B, in 2007. She began making repayments, 
but after her circumstances changed,  the loan went into arrears. The loan was transferred 
from B to Elderbridge  in 2016. Miss M made arrangements with Elderbridge to repay it in 
instalments. Miss M understood  the loan would  be repaid in full by early 2019.  But around 
that time Elderbridge said there  was around  £28,000 more  for her to repay.
Elderbridge told Miss M she had repaid the capital balance. And now she owed the interest  
and associated charges that had accrued whilst the capital balance had been outstanding.  
Miss M was shocked to discover  this. From the documents shed received and the 
conversations shed had with Elderbridge, she felt shed been assured that the instalments 
would clear the loan in full. She didnt  think shed been made aware  there was anything  
further to pay or that interest had been  accruing separately. Shed understood interest had 
been stopped altogether by B in 2008,  following a court order.
Miss M complained to Elderbridge about  this. She also questioned whether it was right for 
the legal  charge to remain on her property now that shed repaid  the capital balance.  
Elderbridge said Miss M owed the additional amount  and, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the loan, only when she repays it in full will the legal charge be removed.
Miss M referred  her complaint to our service. The investigator thought  Elderbridge was 
entitled to charge interest whilst the capital  balance remained  outstanding. And keep the 
legal charge on her property until the loan was repaid in full, including  the interest. But he 
didnt think Elderbridge had been clear with Miss M that interest was accruing in a separate 
account  or that this meant she owed more than the capital balance. He considered  Miss M 
would have been caused distress and inconvenience when she discovered  how much she 
owed. He recommended  Elderbridge pay £500  compensation  for this. Elderbridge  agreed.
Miss M provided  information to show she received a payment in October 2017 that would 
have enabled  her to repay the remaining capital, had she known it was continuing to accrue  
interest. The investigator thought it would be fair for Elderbridge  to recalculate the interest 
owed as if the capital had been repaid in October 2017. Elderbridge agreed to do that and 
said it would  reduce the outstanding amount by around £700.
Miss M said she appreciated  the amounts Elderbridge had agreed to pay. But she didnt 
think it went far enough to put right what Elderbridge had done  wrong.  Had she known the 
interest was accruing, Miss M says she may have  been able to explore other borrowing 
options to help reduce or repay the capital sooner  and therefore  reduce the interest  too. 
She also queried whether Elderbridge would act fairly when considering and administering  
an affordable repayment  plan and whether it might begin repossession  proceedings. And 
she found it unclear  how much exactly she owed and how it had been calculated.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN94239642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss M has a number of concerns about  the way her loan has been  handled since 
she went into arrears in 2008, and how it will be handled in the future. In this decision I can 
only consider the complaint thats been  made  essentially, that Elderbridge  was unclear  
about how much shed need  to pay to clear the loan in full after it took over the loan in 2016. 
And that this denied  her the opportunity to take steps to minimise and manage the debt.
Miss M is entitled to make a separate complaint about the way B dealt with her loan prior to 
its transfer to Elderbridge.  Or about how Elderbridge manages the repayment of the 
outstanding balance.
Elderbridge took over the loan from B in 2016, including its terms and conditions.  They  say 
interest will be charged on the outstanding balance until its repaid in full. Ive considered  the 
court order  from 2008. It doesnt mention interest.  So Im not persuaded it supports Miss Ms 
view that interested  was or should have been  stopped. For these reasons, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable  for Elderbridge to charge interest  from when it took over the loan.
Elderbridge says B decided to suppress the interest  in 2008, around the time Miss M fell into 
arrears. I cant consider Bs decision to do that  or how it communicated  that decision to 
Miss M. But I can explain what it means to suppress interest. Interest is still charged as set 
out in the terms  and conditions. But rather than adding it to the main loan account, where it 
would attract further interest as a result of the usual monthly payments not being  paid in full, 
its added  to a separate  account on which no interest is charged.  It avoids  interest being 
charged on interest and compounding the debt. That supports repayment of the debt.
When Elderbridge  took over the loan and communicated with Miss M, I think  its reasonable 
to expect it to provide  clear and accurate information, particularly about how much she 
owed. Elderbridge has accepted it didnt do that. So Ive considered  what  impact that had on 
Miss M and whether Miss M would have been  in a better position if Elderbridge had been  
clear with her about the total amount she owed.
From what  Miss M has said, I understand she was initially  paying  Elderbridge  an amount 
that was affordable but which she would have struggled  to increase. And when her 
circumstances improved  and she was able to pay more, she contacted Elderbridge  and 
arranged to increase  her payments. So I think its unlikely she would have been able to 
make larger payments than she did, even  if she had known about the amount she owed.
Miss M has shown she received a lump sum in October 2017 that would  have been  sufficient 
to repay  the capital  balance at that time.  Elderbridge has accepted  Miss M would have done 
that if shed been aware  of the interest  accruing. And so its agreed to recalculate the interest 
as if Miss M had made a payment on 1 October  2017. That means Miss M wont be charged 
any interest beyond that date.
Miss M has also said she may have been able to explore  other borrowing options prior to 
October 2017, had she been aware  of the interest accruing. Its possible she may have 
found a lender willing to offer her credit prior to that time. And her upcoming  lump  sum 
payment in October 2017 may have helped with that. But I havent seen any evidence  to 
show a lender would likely  have been prepared to offer credit to Miss M  or on what  terms. 
Ref: DRN94239643Given the outstanding debt with Elderbridge,  lenders may have  been  unwilling to lend to her. 
Or if they were  willing  to lend, the cost of borrowing may have exceeded the benefit of 
reduced interest with Elderbridge. Overall,  aside from the point above, Im not persuaded 
Miss M would likely have been in a better  financial position if shed  known what  she owed.
Miss M had overcome financial difficulties, which arose from upsetting  circumstances, in 
order to repay the capital  balance. I think it would have been a significant relief to believe 
shed settled a long-standing debt under difficult  circumstances.  To find out otherwise would 
have been very distressing for her, especially when the interest amounts to around £28,000 
and will likely take many  years  to repay.
Elderbridge has agreed  to pay £500  in compensation for the distress its caused. Im 
satisfied thats  reasonable in the circumstances. Miss M may choose  to put this money 
toward the outstanding debt if she wishes, but she isnt required to.
Im satisfied Elderbridge  is entitled  to maintain a legal charge on Miss Ms property  until the 
loan has been  repaid  in full, including the interest,  based on Bs terms and conditions.
Miss M has entered into a new payment arrangement with Elderbridge but is unclear exactly  
how much  she owes.  So once Elderbridge has recalculated the interest  Miss M owes,  it 
should provide  her with clear information  to show the total amount she owes.
Miss M would also like to see how the amount she owes  has been calculated.  I think  this is 
reasonable and Elderbridge should do this. Miss M should bear in mind that Elderbridges  
calculation is likely  to start in 2016 with the amount B told it she owed. If shed like to 
understand how B calculated that amount, shell need to ask B for that information.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  For the reasons given above, I require Elderbridge  Limited to:
Recalculate the interest as if Miss M had repaid  the capital  balance  in full on 1 
October 2017;
Provide Miss M with clear  information  to show the total amount she owes,  after the 
recalculation has been taken into account, and how thats  been calculated;
Pay Miss M £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
James Neville
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423964