K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2006 in one of the banks
branches when  they were  taking out a mortgage.  It included life and critical illness insurance 
as well as PPI. The PPI was in Mr Es sole name  and gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  This complaint looks  solely 
at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about
how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long 
ago. Based on what we know about the banks sales process at the time, I think its most 
likely Mr and Mrs E completed  a TMPP application form selecting which elements of the 
cover they wanted,  after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax  has provided samples 
of the documents it used when selling  TMPP at this time. I cant  find enough evidence to 
conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. And I have  seen a copy  of the 
Key Facts document for Mr and Mrs Es mortgage and of their mortgage offer.  Both these 
documents say You do not need to buy any insurance through  Halifax plc and make clear 
only buildings insurance is a condition of the mortgage. They list PPI under the heading 
Optional Insurance and set out the cost separately.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs E had a choice about PPI - and they opted 
to take it out for Mr E.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr E to Mr and Mrs E so it had to make  sure it was
suitable. And overall I think the PPI seems  to have been right for Mr E based  on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  Mr E said he was entitled to 28 weeks  sick pay, but 
the PPI wouldve paid out for each successful  accident and sickness  and claim for up to 12 
months. It also gave him up to 12 months  redundancy cover   again this would have  paid 
out in addition to his work benefit  of 20 weeks pay. Mr E said he had savings  worth  around 
four to five months salary  but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover  other  
living expenses whilst  not working.
Ref: DRN99296452Overall, given the consequences  for Mr and Mrs E of defaulting on debt secured against  
their home, I think the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr E was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs E all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear (it was set out in the 
paperwork sent after the meeting) but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable. I also dont know when Halifax first pointed out the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. But Mr E doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So I dont think 
better information wouldve changed their decision.
Mrs E also told us she had two periods of illness but didnt claim as they were unaware they 
had the PPI. But Mrs E wasnt covered under the policy, it was in Mr Es sole name so she 
wont be able to look into making a retrospective  claim. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs E have lost out because  of any problems with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9929645