K820x#14complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 (on behalf of the estate of Mr S3) say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as 
National & Provincial  Building Society) mis-sold Mr S3 a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr S3 took out a PPI policy in 1992  when he was applying for a mortgage  in one of the 
banks branches.  The policy gave him cover against accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
He paid a monthly  amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S1 and Mr S2 disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr S3 that the PPI was optional  and he had to agree  to 
take it out. Mr S1 and Mr S2 say prior to his death Mr S3 had discussed  making  a complaint 
on the basis he wasnt given an option  and felt he had to take PPI to get the mortgage.  
I cant know what was said during the sale or how the PPI was described to Mr S3. So Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr S1 and Mr S2 have  told us, and looked at the available  
paperwork from the sale. On his mortgage  application Mr S3 ticked  a box indicating that he 
wanted to take out PPI. I cant see there was any wording that might reasonably have  led 
him to think  it was mandatory.  Mr S1 has pointed out that someone else completed the form 
and Mr S3 just signed it. But I think its reasonable to expect that Mr S3 would have read it 
before signing.  So on balance I think its most likely Santander made it clear to Mr S3 that 
the PPI was optional and he agreed  to take it out.
I think Santander recommended the PPI for Mr S3 so it had to make sure it was right for him. 
Based on his circumstances at the time I havent  found enough  evidence  to conclude  it 
wasnt suitable. I say this because:
He was eligible for the cover.  And it seems  there  wasnt anything in the PPI that would  
make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had 
when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt have 
been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr S3 was entitled to some sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
work benefits and for up to 24 months for each  successful accident and sickness claim. 
It also gave up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mr S1 and Mr S2 said Mr S3 would 
have had savings,  but the PPI wouldve allowed him to use any savings to cover  other  
living costs  whilst he wasnt working   or to keep them  intact for his future needs. 
Ref: DRN99590472Mr S1 and Mr S2 also said there were three other adults  living  at the property who 
would have helped  but thats  not suitable  alternative protection.  Its not guaranteed and 
peoples circumstances  can change. The mortgage  was only in Mr S3s name  so he was 
solely responsible  for making the repayments. He was borrowing quite a large amount 
of money over a long time, secured against his home. I do understand that it has been 
difficult for Mr S1 and Mr S2 to confirm  Mr S3s exact circumstances in 1992, but given 
the serious consequences of missing mortgage  repayments, and based on the available  
evidence, I think the policy  would have been useful if Mr S3 had been sick or lost his 
job.
Ive seen nothing to suggest  the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. Its possible  it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same 
reasons I find the policy was suitable,  I dont think better information wouldve changed 
Mr S3s decision. I say this as he doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  
It follows I dont think Mr S3 lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
(on behalf  of the estate of Mr S3) to accept  or reject  my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9959047