K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the service she received from Interactive Investor  Services  Limited 
(Interactive Investor), [previously trading  as TD Direct]. She believes that because it caused 
delays in the transfer of her self-invested  personal pension (SIPP), and as she remained 
invested in cash   shes been  financially disadvantaged for being out of the market.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 December 2019-  a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make.  
In summary,  I said that there was no evidence to show that Mrs S had provided Interactive 
Investor with the forms it needed to carry out her preferred option regarding  her SIPP in 
2017. I also said that, while it was possible that delays  occurred  in 2018 when Mrs S was 
trying to transfer her SIPP back to Interactive Investor, Mrs S then took 16 months to decide 
to invest her cash after it was eventually transferred. I said that I would have expected her to 
mitigate her position when  the cash was available to her,  and concluded there was no clear  
reason why Mrs S may have been  prevented from investing her cash  in that time.  
I thought that the £50 Interactive Investor  offered  Mrs S was a fair and reasonable offer for 
any inconvenience it caused by not contacting  her as promised.
Interactive Investor  said it didnt have any further  information for me to consider, but said it 
would provide recordings of the telephone  conversations it had with Mrs S. 
But Mrs S didnt agree with the provisional  decision. She said she had been out of the 
market for well over a year waiting for the transfer  to complete, and during this period shed 
been unable  to access the cash within her SIPP. She also wanted  me to confirm  that Id 
listened to all of the telephone conversations shed had with Interactive Investor regarding 
her SIPP transfer  which she said outlined the delays  she experienced.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can assure Mrs S that I have  listened  
very carefully to all the phone conversations she had with Interactive Investor in 2018. But, 
having done so, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional 
decision.
I understand the frustrations that Mrs S has suffered here and Ive heard, through the 
content of her conversations, how she continued  to chase  up Interactive Investor regarding 
her transfer  for a number of months  in 2018. Ive heard how she lodged her complaint  in the 
first instance  on 27 December 2017,  so it took around seven  months for the cash to be 
transferred back to a SIPP with Interactive  Investor following the default move to a different 
provider in 2017. 
So I think there were periods in 2018 when  delays may have occurred and its possible  these  
delays could have  been caused by any of the parties involved. But the telephone  calls 
Ref: DRN95391402havent provided any evidence to show that there were any underlying  reasons involved 
here. They confirm  Mrs Ss frustrations and attempts to progress her transfer  but they dont 
explain why, when the transfer did eventually  take place in July 2018, Mrs S didnt invest  the 
cash involved for a further 16 months. 
Mrs S did express disappointment that she was unable to invest  her cash  for the period that 
her SIPP was undergoing the transfer and I understand  why she might have taken that view.  
But when Mrs S had the opportunity to mitigate  her position and invest  accordingly she failed 
to do so. And in the circumstances its difficult to conclude that she would have invested  her 
cash while it was still held between  the providers prior to being transferred, when she didnt 
take any action  herself  for nearly  a year and a half after the transfer completed.
It is possible, on occasion, for investment  to be put on hold until the outcome of a complaint 
is known, particularly where that outcome  might  affect the type of investment. But here 
Mrs S was told during  our complaint process that she could undertake whatever investments 
she thought was necessary, and she wasnt presented with any reason not to invest her 
SIPP cash. So, in the circumstances I cant safely say that Interactive Investor is at fault for 
Mrs Ss funds  remaining  in cash, when she took no action to mitigate  her circumstances until 
many months after Interactive Investor  made her aware that the cash had been transferred 
back to it and into her SIPP. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that there was no evidence to show  that Mrs S had 
returned the forms that Interactive Investor  needed  to ensure she was put into her preferred 
position in 2017. So I didnt think it had done anything wrong in moving her SIPP  to the 
default option when it hadnt  received  the information after the deadline it had set. Ive not 
been presented  with any evidence to change my view on that part of the complaint.
Ive also been  able to listen to the calls which Mrs S says showed the poor level of service  
she received from Interactive Investor  over the transfer in 2018. Ive heard how Mrs S didnt  
want to let Interactive  Investor call her back as she said it had previously failed to do so on a 
number of occasions. Its clear that Mrs S was frustrated  and didnt  feel she was making any 
progress with her transfer despite chasing Interactive Investor many times. 
As Ive said above  its clear that Interactive Investor did make some errors  and clearly  didnt 
contact Mrs S on occasions when it said it would  which would have  added  to Mrs Ss 
frustrations. But I think the £50 its offered for the distress and inconvenience caused is a fair 
and reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the same reasons  as Ive already given in my provisional decision,  I dont  uphold  Mrs Ss 
complaint against  Interactive Investor Services Limited, in so much as I think the £50 its 
offered is fair and reasonable.
Interactive Investor  Services  Limited should  pay Mrs S £50 if it hasnt already done  so.
Ref: DRN95391403Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95391404copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains about the service she received from Interactive Investor  Services Limited (Interactive 
Investor), [previously trading as TD Direct]. She believes  that because it hasnt been able to transfer 
her self-invested personal  pension  (SIPP),  and as she remains invested in cash  shes been 
financially disadvantaged for being out of the market.  
background
Mrs S held a SIPP with TD Direct which  was administered elsewhere. The SIPP was held in cash. 
In May 2017  TD Direct advised  policy holders that the administrators of the scheme would be 
changed in December 2017 and that they had the following  choices as to how to proceed:
keep  the investment element of the SIPP with Interactive Investor and accept the change of 
administrators.
Retain the existing SIPP administrator,  and move the investment element  of the SIPP  to a 
nominated business.
Transfer both the SIPP administration and investment elements  of the SIPP  to another 
provider.
Shortly after the letter was sent out TD Direct  became part of Interactive Investor,  so for the purposes 
of this complaint Ill refer to that business from now on as Interactive  Investor.
Interactive Investor  said that if it didnt  receive  the necessary paperwork to confirm an instruction  by 
30 September 2017, the SIPP would be transferred  to the new investment service  company but 
remain with the existing administrator from 1 December 2017. 
Mrs S confirmed that she wished to transfer her SIPP to Interactive Investor (option three), and 
Interactive Investor  emailed her on 3 July 2017 to confirm receipt  of her request. Mrs Ss form was 
returned to her because it wasnt signed or dated but on 11 July 2017 Interactive Investor  called  her 
to confirm it had everything it needed. 
But that wasnt  the case, and on 13 July 2017 Interactive  Investor  sent a secure  message  to Mrs S to 
confirm that in order to proceed it required transfer in forms. It then became aware that Mrs S hadnt  
read the secure message and so Interactive Investor  said it telephoned her on 15 August  2017 to 
confirm the forms  were  still outstanding. During  the call Interactive Investor  also said it explained how 
Mrs S could reset her log in details  so she could  see the secure message.  
But Interactive  Investor didnt receive  the completed forms by the deadline and so, by 
December 2017, Mrs Ss SIPP was transferred to another business  with the scheme administrator 
remaining the same. 
Mrs S complained. She said she was unhappy with the service shed had from Interactive Investor  
and was also unhappy about the way it had dealt with her complaint. But Interactive Investor didnt 
agree. It said Mrs S had chosen to transfer her pension  to a new provider but hadnt supplied it with 
the necessary forms before  the deadline. Therefore the default option had been used as Interactive 
Investor had previously said it would be  in its letter of 31 May 2017.
Interactive Investor  explained to Mrs S how she could  transfer her SIPP  back   but this involved 
setting up a new plan. It also accepted that it hadnt  been clear during  its telephone conversation with 
Mrs S and hadnt called her back as promised.  It offered £50 compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by this. But Mrs S was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint 
to us. 
Ref: DRN95391405One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and recommended it was not upheld. She said that 
she thought Interactive  Investor had advised  Mrs S by telephone and by email that further paperwork 
was required before the transfer  could  go ahead, and so it wasnt fair to hold it responsible for the 
delay. 
She also said that once the transfer had completed it wasnt possible for this to be reversed without 
further paperwork. This had been requested from Mrs S on a number  of occasions,  however it hadnt 
been returned.
Mrs S didnt agree  as she thought  we hadnt considered the full extent of the mis- information 
Interactive Investor  had given her, which she says directly  led to her being  out of the market  for over a 
year. So as no resolution  could be found the complaint  has been passed to me for a review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And while I agree with the adjudicators conclusions  its for different 
reasons. I know Mrs S will be disappointed with that outcome, and I have some sympathy for her 
position here as she was out of the market for close to two years after she was informed that the 
administration of her SIPP was being changed   so Ill explain my reasoning.
Mrs S has complained, in general, about being out of the market and in cash for some time. So 
Ive looked at her complaint  in two parts, over the period of 2017 and 2018 to date.   
Was Interactive  Investor responsible for the SIPP not being  transferred in 2017?
In May 2017  Mrs S received a letter explaining the change of arrangements for both the management  
and investment services  of her SIPP. The letter outlined the three options available and clearly  set out 
that you need  to let us know your decision by 30 September 2017 and that if you do not respond or 
if we have  not received  the necessary forms for the transfer by 30 September 2017, option 2 will 
apply and the investments held in your SIPP will be transferred  during the period October  to 
December 2017.
So I think Interactive Investor made Mrs S aware  of what it intended to do and what she needed to do 
to ensure her SIPP was held by her preferred  administrator and investment service. And Mrs S 
responded to say she wanted option 3, so Im satisfied  she received the letter and was aware of the 
various options   including the overall  deadline for responding.  
Ive seen a copy of the secure message that Interactive Investor  sent Mrs S on 13 July 2017 which 
confirmed receipt of her paperwork but requested completion of an application form  which  was 
provided through an internet link. The message  confirmed that it would proceed with the transfer 
process when  the application was completed.
And Ive also seen the call notes that followed when Interactive  Investor  was aware that 
Mrs S hadnt responded  to the secure message. Ive seen conformation  that it spoke to 
Mrs S on 15 August 2017, where it was unable  to verify her identity  but did explain how she could 
reset her online details so that she could reply to the secure message. A call back  option was also 
offered. So Im satisfied that Interactive Investor made reasonable attempts to contact Mrs S in order  
to chase up its requirements for the transfer forms before the deadline  which had already been 
confirmed.
Theres no evidence  to show that Mrs S did provide Interactive  Investor with the forms it required,  so I 
cant say it acted unreasonably when it moved Mrs Ss SIPP to the default option  2 position. Thats 
what Interactive Investor  said it would do  in its letter of May 2017  if its requirements  werent met 
by the deadline. So I dont think Interactive Investor has done anything wrong there.   
Ref: DRN95391406Post 2018 delays
But Mrs Ss complaint went further than the problems in transferring  following the changes to her 
SIPP provider. She has said that she was unable to access her funds and was out of the market for 
over a year (when  she brought her complaint). So Ive carefully considered the period after Mrs Ss 
SIPP was transferred to another business, when the only way for her to achieve  the transfer she 
originally wanted was to transfer the SIPP back to Interactive Investor  as if it was a new plan.  Mrs S 
says this process was delayed  and caused her to lose out on investment growth  because  she 
remained in cash for that time. 
The first part of the process  was for Mrs S to complete  a transfer request form for the new provider 
which needed  to be completed  and sent to Interactive Investor. The form was sent to Mrs S on 
21 March  2018 and she sent it to Interactive Investor on 29 April 2018.  Thereafter the transfer 
eventually completed when the cash was transferred  back  to Interactive Investor  on 30 July 2018.  So 
I think  from when Interactive Investor received the forms and could reasonably be said to have all 
documents required  to begin the process, the transfer took another  three months.
Ive looked carefully at the timeline  of events between Mrs S, Interactive Investor and the previous  
SIPP provider during  this time.  And Ive seen that there are some periods when it could be said that 
delays occurred. 
However, Ive also had to take into account that Mrs S was made aware the cash  had been 
transferred to Interactive  Investor in July 2018, but only invested it sometime after 
7 November 2019  this was around 16 months after the transfer took place. 
And Ive borne in mind  that in an email from 19 December 2018 Mrs S said to our adjudicator that 
(Id) like to remind you that until now I have  not invested  my cash awaiting the final outcome. But 
she was told that .On the point about not investing your cash, please  note that any actions you take 
on your SIPP won't prejudice the outcome  here
So I think Mrs S was made aware that she could have invested her cash  at any point during  the 
complaint process without affecting  the outcome.  And I would have expected her to have mitigated  
any loss she believed she may have suffered  as soon as was practically possible following the 
transfer. Of the period  that Mrs S says shes been out of the market since the initial default position 
of 2017, shes had the opportunity to mitigate her position and invest  the cash for over 60% of that 
time. And so even if the delays hadnt been caused, I dont  think the available  evidence indicates that 
Mrs S would have invested  her SIPP  cash any sooner  than she actually did. 
Mrs S told us shes invested recently because the funds couldnt stay in cash  any longer.  And its not 
clear what  may have caused her to take up that position now. But, I think  Mrs S was made  aware at 
the latest in December 2018 that she could have invested her cash  fund and I would have expected 
her to have done so shortly after that.
There may be some circumstances  where  uncertainty about, say, the suitability  of an investment may 
prevent an individual  from changing this until the outcome  of a complaint is known. But the very 
essence of Mrs S complaint  here is the delay  in investing cash in her SIPP. Theres no clear reason, 
therefore, as to why Mrs S was reasonably prevented from investing her cash  while  we considered 
the complaint. 
Mrs S also complained about the service she received from Interactive  Investor in 2018 especially 
when she was trying to find out what she needed to do to transfer the funds  back to Interactive 
Investor from the new SIPP manager. But Interactive Investor has acknowledged that it should have 
been clearer at that time and that it didnt  call her back as promised.  It offered her £50 compensation  
for any inconvenience caused. Looking  at the impact that caused Mrs S, at a time when she was 
concerned about transferring  her funds, I think thats a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN95391407my provisional  decision 
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint in as much as I think  the offer of £50 for any 
distress and inconvenience  caused  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9539140