K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the amount he was charged for his motor insurance policy after 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited re-rated his premium. 
background
Mr P was involved  in an accident  in December  2016 that he didnt think  was his fault. The 
other driver involved in the accident  contacted Advantage and said they were going  to make 
a claim against Mr P. As the other drivers insurer didnt  submit further information the claim 
remained open on Mr Ps record. Mr P complained to Advantage about how long the claim 
had been open for and about  how much  more his policy had cost at renewal in 2017 and 
2018.
Advantage closed  the claim in January 2019  as it hadnt received further information from 
the other driver. It re-rated Mr Ps policy and said this led to a refund of £132.66. It also paid 
Mr P £100  compensation as it said it could have  done more to keep him updated during this 
time. As he was unhappy with the amount hed been  refunded Mr P brought  his complaint to 
us. He didnt think it was fair that the cost of his policy had increased to over £1,000  
following the accident. 
Advantage said the cost of Mr Ps policy  had increased in line with its underwriting  criteria. It 
said Mr P had a previous  claim  from 2015 which combined with another incident  in 2016 had 
led to his premium increasing. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. While we were 
looking into Mr Ps complaint Advantage re-opened the claim, as the other driver submitted 
more information.  Mr P has told us the claim was ultimately thrown  out by the court and he 
was found not at fault for the accident.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint and recommended  it be upheld.  He 
didnt think Advantage had been  able to show why the cost of Mr Ps policy  had increased  as 
much as it had. As such, he thought the fair and reasonable outcome was for Advantage to 
refund Mr P anything hed paid above  what hed been charged for his policy  in 2016. He also 
said Advantage should pay any additional  costs Mr P had paid due to paying on finance, 
plus interest on the amount it refunded. He also recommended  a total of £200 compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage didnt  agree,  as it said it had charged Mr P the correct  amount. It provided further 
information to show how it had calculated the premium. 
A different investigator considered this information.  He still didnt think Advantage had been  
able to show why it had charged  Mr P as much as it had, but he thought Advantage had 
shown it should  have charged  Mr P £730.47 at the renewal in 2017 and £772.97 at the 
renewal in 2018. So, he recommended Advantage refund Mr P £380.93 in excess premium, 
plus excess finance costs,  interest  and a total of £200 compensation. 
Advantage didnt  respond. Mr P replied to say he still didnt think it was fair for Advantage to 
charge him double  what it had in 2016  and he wouldnt have renewed with them  for those 
years if hed known how much the refund  would  have  been. 
As neither party has accepted the investigators view, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN99523262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is unhappy  that he had an open claim on his record for so long. 
However, I can see that the other  driver had told Advantage they were going  to claim against 
Mr P. So, Advantage  was awaiting  information. As Advantage hadnt paid anything  out on 
the claim it was unable to issue  proceedings against  the other driver. Im pleased  to see that 
Advantage ultimately closed the claim when  it seemed that the other  driver  wasnt going to 
submit the information  needed and that it paid Mr P £100 compensation for not keeping him 
updated. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount for the lack of updates  during  that time. 
The claim being open on Mr Ps record meant the amount  hed paid for his policy  was 
higher, as the cost was rated on the open claim.  Im pleased  that Advantage said it would 
refund anything additional Mr P paid when the claim was closed as notification  only, as this 
is what I would expect  it to do. However, I understand Mr P thinks the amount he was 
refunded was too low. 
The total amount  Mr P paid for his policy is made  up of a premium and additional costs such  
as finance and optional extras. In this decision  I will focus on the premium and not the total 
cost of the policy, as thats the amount in dispute.  In 2016 Mr Ps premium was £346.94,  in 
2017 it was £903.63 and in 2018 it was £991.64. 
Im not able to tell Advantage how much it can charge for its policies however, I look to see 
that Advantage has acted fairly  and reasonably.  In this case, that means looking to see if 
Advantage has correctly  increased Mr Ps premium  in line with its underwriting  criteria and 
treated him as it would other policyholders with the same circumstances. 
Advantage has provided me with information  that it says shows  how it calculated Mr Ps 
premium. Im not able to share the information, so cant comment on the individual  points 
within it. However, having considered the information I dont think Advantage has done 
enough to persuade me that it was fair to charge Mr P over £900 in 2017  and 2018. I say 
that because our investigator  asked Advantage on a number of occasions to provide a more 
detailed explanation of how the underwriting criteria  led to the premiums  charged.  I dont 
think that the explanations  Advantage provided  are sufficient  to explain the amounts Mr P 
was charged and as such  I dont  think  it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for 
me to say the amount  Advantage  charged Mr P in 2017 and 2018  was fair.  
That means I need to decide what it is fair for Advantage to have charged.  Advantage has 
provided information that indicates Mr P should  have been  charged premiums of £730.47  in 
2017 and £772.97 in 2018. Its not unusual  for premiums to increase when a policyholder 
has been involved in more than one accident  within a couple of years, even if the 
policyholder isnt at fault or if the incident  is recorded  as notification only.  Im also satisfied 
from what Ive seen  in Advantages underwriting criteria that the second accident  in 2016 
would have caused Mr Ps premium  to increase. 
I appreciate this is more  than Mr P would have wanted to pay and he feels he would have 
gone elsewhere if hed known. However, there are other factors  that can increase  the cost of 
a policy, such as customer  discounts  being removed. And Im satisfied the second accident 
would have impacted his premiums, so Im not going to require Advantage to reduce Mr Ps 
premium to the amount hed paid in 2016. I do think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Ref: DRN99523263Advantage to refund  Mr P the difference between what he paid in 2017 (£903.63)  and 2018 
(£991.64) and what I think its fair and reasonable to say Advantage should have charged 
him (£730.47 in 2017 and £772.97 in 2018). 
To put things right, I think the fair and reasonable outcome would be for Advantage to refund 
Mr P a total of £391.83, less the £132.66 if its already refunded that. As Mr P paid for his 
policy on finance Advantage  should  also reimburse Mr P for any additional interest he paid 
for that year at the rate on his finance agreement. Due to the time Mr Ps been  without  the 
money he should have had, Advantage  should  then pay interest at 8% simple  per year on 
both the excess  premium and any additional  finance from the date he paid for them to the 
date it makes payment.  
I can see that this has caused Mr P unnecessary  distress and inconvenience  and agree with 
our investigator that an additional £100 is a fair and reasonable amount for Advantage  to pay 
to compensate him for this. This will take the total payment for distress and inconvenience  to 
£200. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Refund Mr P £391.83, less the £132.66  it offered  initially  if its already paid that.
Reimburse Mr P for any interest or finance  costs paid on the additional £391.83 while  
the finance agreement was in place.
Pay Mr P 8% simple interest  per year on both the excess  premium and the additional 
finance costs  from the date he paid for them to the date it makes  payment. 
A total of £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2021.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952326