K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out the PPI in 1997 at the same time as applying for the card by filling in an 
application form in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W cant remember how she took out the card and PPI, but shes  said that the policy 
must have  been  added without her knowledge or consent. However, Ive seen a copy  of the 
application form that Mrs W completed.  There is a section for PPI and there is a tick in the 
box in that area to request  the policy. Mrs W has also printed her full name as the person to 
be insured.
The sale happened a long time ago, and so its not surprising  that Mrs Ss recollection of 
events has faded.  Looking at the available evidence, I think that the optional nature of the 
policy was probably  made  clear.  It seems to me that Mrs W decided to buy the policy, 
knowing that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer  remembers doing so.
Allianz didnt advise Mrs W to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough  information for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs W says she would have received six months  full pay if she was off sick. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  than she would have 
received full pay for. She had some savings, but having the policy  would have allowed her to 
retain these  or to use them  to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. 
Mrs W has had some health problems over the years, but from the information she has been 
able to give us, these all seem to have occurred after she had taken  out the card and policy. 
I havent seen  any evidence that she had a pre-existing medical  condition  at the time that 
would have limited  her ability to make  a successful claim. Mrs W has also said that she had 
an existing insurance  policy  in 1997. We asked  for further details  of this but didnt receive a 
response. Overall  I think that Mrs W had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted 
from it.
 
Its possible that Allianz didnt provide as much  information about  the PPI as it should have, 
but (for the reasons Ive explained) Mrs W wasnt affected by any of these things. As I think 
Ref: DRN97795582she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further  information  
would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse off as a result  of 
anything Allianz  may have  done  wrong, so theres nothing  Allianz  needs  to do to put things  
right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9779558