K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that her insurance policy  was cancelled  after she made  a claim under 
it. Her policy was taken out through a broker, but underwritten by a syndicate at The Society 
of Lloyds (Lloyds), so the complaint has been  handled by Lloyds.
background
Mrs K took out an insurance policy to cover  a ring in October 2017. In July 2018 she made  a 
claim for the loss of the ring. But after the underwriters of the policy investigated the claim, 
they cancelled  the insurance policy and returned the premium Mrs K had paid.  This was 
because, when Mrs K first took out the policy, she was asked about her occupation and said 
she was a child care assistant. But at the time of the claim there wasnt enough evidence to 
show she was in fact employed. And had they known  she wasnt in employment, they 
wouldnt have provided her any cover.
Mrs K doesnt think the underwriters have acted fairly in cancelling her policy.  She says she 
has provided information to show she was employed. And she doesnt think she was asked 
clear enough  questions at the time she took out the insurance.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought the underwriters  had acted 
fairly in cancelling the policy.  But Mrs K disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  for the same reasons.
In this decision I havent considered whether Mrs Ks claim  should  have been paid out under 
the policy, rather Ive considered whether  the underwriters acted fairly  in cancelling  the 
policy in the way they did. So I make  no finding as to whether or not Mrs Ks claim would 
have been likely to succeed had the policy not been cancelled.
Ive seen a record  of a call Mrs K made to take out an insurance policy on 12 September 
2017. On this occasion Mrs K spoke to a sales advisor and was asked about her occupation  
 she said she wasnt working. After checking with the underwriting team, the advisor  said 
they couldnt offer any insurance  to someone who wasnt employed. Ive seen  the 
underwriting criteria that said applications  for cover  would be declined for people  who were 
unemployed or not in employment, so I think the criteria was followed.
On 28 September  2017, Mrs K called the brokers again to get a further quote  Ive been 
able to listen to a recording of that call. In the call Mrs K was asked if shed had a quote  
through them before and she said she hadnt. She was also asked some  questions about 
her circumstances, including:
And your occupation?
Mrs K responded:
Ref: DRN95287662Im a child care assistant.
I think it would have  been clear to Mrs K that this was asking  about  her employment and she 
gave a clear answer.  And I note this was a different answer to what  was said in the call 
around two weeks before  when she was asked:
Okay and your occupation?
And Mrs K said:
At the current moment, I am not working  at the moment
On both occasions Mrs K was asked the same  question about her occupation  and I think it 
was clear this related  to whether she was employed.  And as the broker  had explained in the 
first call that cover wasnt offered to people not in employment, I think  Mrs K should have 
known it was important  to the underwriter whether or not she was employed when answering 
the question in the second call.
On 4 October 2017 Mrs K decided to take up the quote  and she was sent out statement of 
fact. It was four pages long and set out the information that had been given at the time the 
policy was taken out, including that Mrs K said her occupation was childcare assistant. The 
statement of fact says that Mrs K should check it and return  it with any changes if the 
information was wrong  or needed  to be changed  I cant see Mrs K said there  were  any 
changes and I dont  think it was unreasonable to expect her to read this document.
Given the difference between what Mrs K had said between 12 and 28 September 2017, I 
think it was fair for the underwriters to question her employment and ask for some more 
information at the time she made  a claim.
Mrs K explained that she was actually studying  for a qualification in child care and as part of 
that had work placements,  but I cant see she was actually employed as a child care 
assistant at either the time she took out the cover or made a claim. And Mrs K hasnt 
provided either the underwriters or this service with any further information to show she was 
employed whilst undertaking any work placements, which I would have expected  her to do if 
she was employed.
Mrs K provided the underwriters a letter from a company saying that she worked there part 
time for 7 hours a week. The letter says that due to the level of pay there was no duty to 
process Mrs Ks wages through the PAYE  system or produce any pay slips for her. The 
underwriters asked Mrs K questions about this work  as the person who signed  the letter had 
resigned as a director of the company around a year earlier.  They asked for more 
information about her earnings and tax arrangements, but Mrs K didnt supply any further 
information.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think the underwriters acted fairly in concluding  that Mrs K 
wasnt working at either the time she took out the insurance or made the claim. And I think 
that, as Mrs K should have been  aware this was important, the underwriters acted fairly in 
saying she hadnt  shown reasonable care when answering the question about her 
employment.
Having read the underwriting criteria,  I dont think Mrs K would have been offered cover  if 
she had said she wasnt employed on 28 September 2017. It follows  I think the underwriters 
Ref: DRN95287663acted fairly  in cancelling her policy and, as the premium she paid has been returned,  I dont 
think the underwriters need  do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9528766