K822xcomplaint
Ms F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold  her a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account. She says she went to a NatWest branch to increase her 
overdraft and was told that to do so shed need to upgrade her account to an Advantage 
Gold account.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 April 2019 explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive attached a copy of my provisional decision  and it forms part of this 
decision.
Ms F didnt respond to the provisional decision.  NatWest responded and in summary said 
that as Ms F held an overdraft on a fee-free account before the sale of her Advantage Gold 
account, she knew that having  an Advantage gold account was not a requirement  to have an 
overdraft. NatWest also referred to Ms Fs overdraft being increased in October 2010.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to help 
decide what to do about Ms Fs complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I acknowledged that Ms F did have an arranged  overdraft facility 
on her account before  it was upgraded to an Advantage Gold  account. But Ms Fs complaint, 
which she clarified with NatWest in an email  dated 19 November 2018,  is that she was led to 
believe she should take out an Advantage Gold account so that she could increase her 
overdraft, rather than to have an overdraft. So I dont think the existence of an overdraft on 
her account  prior to the sale of the Advantage Gold account undermines  what  Ms F has said 
about how the Advantage Gold account was sold to her.
NatWest says that the type of account  held didnt have any bearing on whether  an overdraft 
may be approved  or not. Whilst I understand this point, Ms F has been quite clear and 
consistent that this wasnt  made clear to her and that she was misled into thinking that shed 
need to upgrade her account to get the increased overdraft approved.  And as Ive not seen  
anything to make me doubt what Ms F has said, I dont  think  this point changes  my thoughts  
on the complaint.
NatWest has also pointed  out that Ms F successfully applied for a £300 overdraft facility on 
her account  in October 2010 and not in October  2009 as Id said in my provisional  decision. 
Ive considered whether this changes my thoughts  on this case, but again I dont think  it 
does. 
Ms F says that she was led to believe that she had to agree to the Advantage Gold account 
to increase her overdraft.  And on the same day that the account was sold to her, she applied  
for an overdraft limit that, notably,  was double her existing limit. So although Ms F mayve 
been able to increase her overdraft on her fee-free account previously, the evidence from 
the time does support what Ms F says happened  when  she went to increase it again.
Ref: DRN96513542I understand that Ms F did attempt  to claim on the mobile phone insurance  provided by the 
account in 2013, so I have considered whether  Ms F agreed  to the account because she 
was attracted to the benefits it provided. But I understand that Ms F attempted to claim on 
the mobile phone  insurance essentially because she was already  paying for it. And I cant 
see that Ms F had a particular need  for the other  benefits provided by the account  either.  So 
Im not persuaded that Ms F agreed to the account  for the benefits  it provided. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Ms F agreed to the upgrade because she was misled by 
NatWest into thinking  it would help her application for an increased overdraft facility to be 
approved, rather than because she wanted it for the benefits it provided.  And had Ms F been 
given clear, fair and not mis-leading information  about the Advantage Gold account, I think 
its unlikely that she wouldve  agreed  to it.
Because of this, I remain of the view that its more likely than not, that NatWest mis-sold the 
Advantage Gold account to Ms F and Ms F has lost out because of this.   
what NatWest  needs to do to put matters right
NatWest should  put Ms F in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt upgraded her account 
to an Advantage  Gold account. To do this, NatWest needs to:
Pay Ms F the monthly  account fees she paid from when the Advantage Gold  account 
was sold, up until Ms F changed  her account to a Reward Platinum account;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid them, until she gets them  
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year ;
If Ms F saved money because of a better rate on her overdraft, loans or savings 
accounts by having  the Advantage  gold packaged  account  and NatWest  can show  
exactly how much Ms F saved, it may deduct  these savings from the amount it pays 
her. NatWest must  explain clearly and simply to Ms F how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  NatWest  to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must give Ms F a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
and require National Westminster Bank  Plc to do what I have said above to put matters  right.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96513543Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms F has complained that NatWest mis-sold her a fee-paying Advantage  Gold account.  She says she 
went to a NatWest  branch  to increase  her overdraft and was told that to do so shed  need to upgrade 
her account  to an Advantage Gold account.
background
Ms Fs account history  is as follows:
Opened a fee-free  Current  Plus account on 9 March 2009
Upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Gold account on 24 January 2011
Changed to a fee-paying Select Platinum account  due to the withdrawal of the Advantage  
Gold account on 8 July 2015.
Upgraded to a fee-paying Reward  Platinum account on 15 September  2016.
As the change  to a Select Platinum account was because of the withdrawal of the Advantage gold 
account, it has not been  treated as a separate sale. And as Ms F has not complained about  the sale 
of the Reward Platinum  account, this hasnt been considered in this complaint.
One of our adjudicators  assessed  the complaint and didnt think the Advantage gold account  had 
been mis-sold. Ms F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle  complaints about 
packaged accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to help decide  what  to do about Ms 
Fs complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
circumstances at the time. 
Having done this, I currently think  that the Advantage Gold account  was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ms F, from the outset, has been very clear that her complaint is specifically that she went to a 
NatWest branch to increase her overdraft facility and she was told, to do so, she should upgrade to 
the Advantage Gold account.
The adjudicator who assessed the complaint didnt think it had been mis-sold  as Ms F was able to 
apply for an overdraft on her fee-free Current Plus account.  And I can see Ms F did initially obtain an 
overdraft of £100 on 9 March 2009 i.e. when the account was opened. 
Ms F then increased the overdraft to £300 on 21 October  2009.
Ive carefully considered the previous overdraft increases alongside Ms Fs testimony to weigh up 
what I think was likely  to have happened  during the sale of the Advantage  Gold account.  And 
although I do appreciate Ms F had increased her overdraft  limit before, I can also see that Ms F 
applied for an increased overdraft limit of £350 on 23 October  2010 which was declined.  Then I can 
see that on the day of the sale, a larger overdraft of £600 was applied for and approved by NatWest.
So Ms F had been unable to increase the overdraft limit a few months prior to the sale, and she did 
successfully increase  the limit on the day of the sale. Ms F doesnt appear to have had a particular 
need for the account benefits at the time either. And what Ms F has said about  the sale has been 
consistent with the evidence that is available.  So, taking  everything into account, I think  its more  likely  
Ref: DRN96513544than not that Ms F was given the incorrect impression  that upgrading her account would help her 
secure an increased overdraft. 
I understand that at the time, the Advantage Gold account did offer a £100 interest free overdraft 
benefit. But Im not persuaded  that Ms F agreed to an account that cost £12.95 just for the overdraft 
benefit. And Im not persuaded  that Ms F applied for the Advantage Gold account because  she was 
attracted to the other benefits the account provided.
So, on balance,  I think its more likely that Ms F was misled into thinking  that she had to upgrade her 
account to an Advantage gold account  to obtain the larger overdraft limit  when in fact having  a 
packaged account had no bearing on Ms Fs ability to increase her overdraft limit. 
Because of this I think that Ms F has lost out from what NatWest did wrong.  And I dont think  that Ms 
F wouldve  agreed to upgrade her account had she not been mis-led.
what NatWest  needs to do to put matters  right
Im intending  to require NatWest to put Ms F in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt upgraded  
her account  to an Advantage Gold account.  To do this, NatWest should:
Pay Ms F the monthly account fees she paid from when the Advantage  Gold account was 
sold, up until Ms F changed her account to a Reward  Platinum account;
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it, until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year ;
If Ms F saved money because of a better rate on her overdraft,  loans or savings accounts  by 
having the Advantage  gold packaged  account and NatWest can show exactly  how much  Ms F 
saved, it may deduct these  savings from the amount it pays her. NatWest must  explain clearly 
and simply  to Ms F how it has worked  out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must  give Ms F 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Because of the reasons given above,  Im intending to uphold this complaint and require National 
Westminster Bank  Plc to do what  I have said above to put matters right.
I now invite  Ms F and National Westminster Bank Plc to give me any further information they want  me 
to consider, before  I make  my final decision. This must be provided to us by 25 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9651354