K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited (trading as Barclays)  unfairly  
rejected his loan application and refused to give reasons for its decision.
background
Mr B applied to Barclays for a loan for a new kitchen, but his application  was rejected. He 
asked Barclays for reasons, but the bank said its lending criteria were confidential and it 
therefore wouldnt explain why Mr B had failed to meet them. But it suggested Mr B check 
that his credit file was up to date.
Mr B complained to us that he believed Barclays was discriminating against him as it had a 
track record of doing so.
Our investigator confirmed that financial organisations are entitled  to determine their own 
lending criteria. These criteria are generally commercially  sensitive  and would not be shared 
with customers or with us. Our investigator said that having considered  the detail Barclays 
had provided about  its rejection of Mr Bs application, she couldnt conclude  that it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision saying that he was entitled  to be given a reason 
for the rejection and he repeated his concerns that Barclays  was potentially discriminating  
against him based on his name,  race, religion  or some other characteristic.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that it is not within my remit  to consider cases of potentially 
unlawful discrimination. That is the role of the courts. In considering  complaints I look at 
whether the financial  business behaviour and decisions have been  fair and reasonable, and 
in line with the relevant codes of practice. And it is on this basis  that I have considered  
Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B applied to Barclays for a home  improvement loan and was rejected. He says his 
earnings are high and he has no financial problems. He therefore cannot  understand why his 
loan application  has been rejected. And Mr B is particularly concerned that by not being  
prepared to give its reasons Barclays may be practicing unlawful discrimination. 
Financial organisations  are free to determine  their own lending  criteria, which are likely to 
reflect amongst  other things, their attitude to risk and their organisational priorities. It follows  
therefore that criteria  may well be different between financial organisations and that 
customers applying to one bank for a loan may be rejected by that bank but accepted by 
another.
In this case Barclays applied its lending criteria  to Mr Bs application and decided not to offer 
him a loan. That was a legitimate business decision for Barclays  to make  and in doing so it 
will no doubt  have considered Mr Bs income,  his credit reference  file and the extent  of his 
existing financial commitments.
Ref: DRN98897872Mr B believes that Barclays should  be required to state its reasons for rejecting his 
application. But Im afraid  that not only is it not required to do so under the various  banking  
codes of practice, I also cannot  instruct  it to do so. 
Mr B is concerned that Barclays  may have  unlawfully discriminated against him. As I have 
commented already  that is not a matter for me to determine, but that said,  Id like to reassure 
M B that Ive seen nothing in the information the bank has provided that would lead me to 
have concerns that it has unlawfully discriminated against him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9889787