K821x#15complaint
Mr W is being represented  by solicitors. His complaint about Options SIPP UK LLP is that it 
allowed an unlicensed broker to arrange  for his pension to be transferred to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  in order to invest in a high-risk, unregulated investment (with Store 
First) that wasnt  suitable for him. And that it failed to carry out proper due diligence  that 
would have prevented the transaction.
At the time of the events being  complained about, Options SIPP was called Carey Pensions 
UK LLP (Carey)  and Ill refer to it by that name.
background
Carey  
Carey is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Carey is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring  about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension 
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments. 
CL&P 
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. One of the directors  of CL&P  was a 
Terence Wright. On 15 October  2010, the following was published on the Financial Services  
Authority (FSA), website:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to 
warn investors against dealing with unauthorised firms. 
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual 
Terence  (Terry)  Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry 
on a regulated activity  in the UK. Regulated activities  include,  amongst other  things, 
advising on investments.  The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK 
customers via the firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service  and the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme are not available  if you deal with an 
unauthorised company  or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do.
the relationship  between CL&P and Carey 
Carey was approached  by CL&P in 2011  and entered into discussions about  accepting 
introductions from it. Carey says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P  at this time. It 
Ref: DRN93835602says it reviewed CL&P's profile,  conducted  searches,  reviewed CL&Ps  website and 
literature and had conversations  with CL&Ps representatives over the telephone. 
Carey began to accept introductions from CL&P on 15 August 2011.
A non-regulated introducer profile  was completed by CL&P  on 29 September 2011.  It was 
signed by a Mr Wright,  and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm, and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used a 0845  telephone number.
It had been  trading  for two years, and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First,  Verdant  Australian 
Farmland, and two other  unregulated investments.
It worked with four other  SIPP operators. 
Its source of business was referrals  and web enquiries. 
Its sales process involved  a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings. 
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various  compliance officers. 
Carey had a conference call with representatives  of CL&P  on 9 December 2011. During that 
call the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P  to transfer to a SIPP and 
make investments was raised, and concern about  final salary  scheme  transfers. The note of 
the call included the following: 
Concern was raised at a recent AMPS [Association of Member-Directed Pension 
Schemes] conference regarding Final  Salary  Transfers  to SIPPs,  the need for clients  
to take advice, the fact that ordinarily  you would not expect  more than 5% of FSTVs 
to be execution only and these would only be relevant for suitably qualified 
individuals such as IFAs, Brokers, Investment Professionals.  [Carey  staff member] 
explained the matters raised  at the conference.  Discussed with CLP because some  
30% of the business received into Careys from them is in relation to FS transfers 
which previously have  been processed with member declarations. All agreed  that in 
future cases of FS Transfers would be referred to suitably qualified  IFAs for relevant 
advice and copy of that advice would  be provided to Careys for file records. 
[Carey staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member  had asked when 
they would  receive  their money from their Store  First Investment, [CL&P 
representatives] confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P  
receive any form of inducement for either establishing the SIPP  or making the Store 
First Investment and that CL&P policy does  not include offering inducements.
[Carey staff member] emphasised that it is completely  against  all rules that clients  or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular  investments .
An agreement between Carey and CL&P was signed in March  2012. This was back-dated to 
August 2011.  Carey  says this was done to cover  all the investments that had been  
introduced to it by CL&P.  
Carey terminated its agreement with CL&P on 25 May 2012. It says the basis  for this was 
Carey again becoming  aware that CL&P was offering consumers cash  incentives for 
Ref: DRN93835603transferring to a Carey  SIPP  and making  investments.  It says this came to light when 
consumers contacted it to ask when the money  would be paid.
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self storage units,  which were part 
of a larger storage  facility  in the UK. Investors  bought one or more  units  in the facility,  and 
were offered  a guaranteed level of income  for a set period of time. After  that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided,  or sell them  (assuming there was a market 
for them). 
Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
Mr Ws dealings with CL&P  and Carey
In 2011 Mr W says he contacted CL&P after seeing  an online advertisement. Mr W says 
CL&P aggressively marketed the Store First investment and introduced  him to Carey.
Mr W applied  for a SIPP with Carey in August 2011. The application included the request to 
transfer his existing personal pension benefits with Standard Life to the SIPP.  Mr W also 
signed a letter of authority  authorising Carey to liaise  with CL&P  in respect  of his pension  
transfer.  
On 8 September 2011, Standard Life wrote to Carey  to confirm the amount being transferred 
to the SIPP.  This money was received into the SIPP  on 12 September 2011. 
Carey asked Mr W to complete a Member Declaration and Indemnity  form in relation to the 
Store First investment, which read as follows: 
I, [Mr W] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey  Pension Trustees 
UK Ltd to Purchase a Leasehold Storage  Unit(s) in the Storefirst  investment through  
Harley-Scott Holdings  Ltd for a consideration of £65000 on my behalf  for the above 
Scheme.
I am fully aware that this is investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is 
High Risk and / or Speculative.
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this 
investment and have  taken my own advice; including financial,  investment and tax 
advice.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees  UK 
Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither  Carey  Pensions UK LLP 
nor Carey  Pension Trustees  UK Ltd have provided  any advice whatsoever in respect  
of this investment.
I confirm that my business/occupation is not renting  out storage units.
Ref: DRN93835604I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf  of the 
Scheme;
[details of solicitor]
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable 
Moveable Property and/or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future  
these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event  of my demise, if Carey Pension  
Trustees UK Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be 
transferred to my beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject to 
any Inheritance Tax.
I agree  to provide Carey  Pension Trustees UK Ltd with any further  information  and/or 
documentation they may require prior to completing the purchase of this investment.
I indemnify both Carey  Pensions UK LLP and Carey  Pension Trustees Ltd against  
any and all liability arising from this investment.
The declaration and indemnity was signed on 15 August 2011. 
Once the application and declaration were  received, Carey  set up the SIPP and processed 
the application for the Store First investment. The investment  was completed on 
25 October 2011. It was at this point that Mr W received  an incentive payment of £5,000.  
The Store First investment hasnt performed as hoped and as a result, Mr W may have lost 
all or most of the money he invested. 
Mr W complained  to Carey. His representative  said Carey shouldnt  have accepted his 
application for a SIPP  and investment with Store First from an unlicensed broker.   
Careys response
Carey didnt accept Mr Ws complaint and made the following key points:
Its not permitted to assess and advise on the suitability of an investment for a 
particular member,  and nor does it do so.
It carried out checks and due diligence on CL&P Brokers.
It determined, after proper due diligence, that the Store  First investment was capable  
of being held within a UK pension scheme,  in line with HMRC's guidelines.
Mr W confirmed  his understanding that Carey couldnt advise him, and was not 
advising him, with regard to the suitability of the investment (or on any other  
investment issue).
Mr W confirmed  his understanding that the Store First investment was of its nature 
high risk and/or speculative.
Ref: DRN93835605Mr W received  a cash incentive of £5,000 (that Carey wasnt  aware of) and his 
decisions were motivated by this. If Carey hadnt accepted  his application, hed have 
found another SIPP provider who would. So the investment would still have 
proceeded and hed have  suffered  the same loss.
Mr W didnt accept this outcome and referred his complaint to us.
the investigators view 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary,  he said:
The FCAs  Principles  for Businesses  and the regulatory publications  which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles were  relevant considerations here. 
Carey carried  out significant due diligence,  but it took a piecemeal approach, and in 
the meantime  accepted  business  from CL&P.  Had it carried  out all its due diligence  
at the outset, it ought to have concluded  it shouldnt  accept  business from CL&P at 
all.
Carey should have conducted  background checks  on the directors of CL&P  at the 
outset, rather than on two members of CL&Ps staff. Had Carey  checked the 
directors at the outset it would have discovered  Mr Wright was subject to a warning 
on the FSAs website.  
Mr W was paid an incentive  of £5,000  shortly  after the transaction completed.  Given  
his limited experience  of pensions  and investments, he wouldnt have been aware  
this might not be right. 
Carey put some  reliance on the documents signed by Mr W, particularly the 
declaration and indemnity. But it shouldnt have accepted his application at all, so 
shouldnt have  required him to sign any documents. Asking  Mr W to sign documents  
didnt mean it was fair and reasonable to proceed with his investment instructions.  
 
further information  provided by Carey  
We asked Carey to provide us with some  further  information about its relationship with 
CL&P. Its response included the following general  points; 
551 clients were  introduced to Carey via CL&P. 466 clients had been  introduced  by 
the time CL&P signed the Terms of Business.
There was an FCA regulated financial adviser who provided  pension transfer advice 
to 73 of the clients introduced to Carey by CL&P, in relation  to defined benefit 
pension transfers.  
Carey first had awareness  of the issue of consumers being offered cash incentives 
by CL&P in late November 2011. This was following the AMPS  committee issuing an 
alert that it had received reports from a number of pension  providers  about  
inducements being  paid to scheme members  without the knowledge of the pension 
provider, and the member being told to hide the payment. No details were given 
Ref: DRN93835606about the parties involved. With this in mind, and following a potential  new member  
introduced by CL&P asking Carey  when they would receive their cash, Carey held an 
urgent telephone conference with representatives from CL&P (the notes of this call 
are quoted above). 
It has no record of receiving the accounts  for CL&P and certified copies of the 
directors passports it asked for. It thinks it is likely  that this lack of response was a 
factor in its decision to terminate its relationship  with CL&P.
CL&P only introduced  the clients to Carey at inception, it wasnt an ongoing service  
agent and, as such, the relationship was always between Carey and the members 
from establishment of the SIPPs,  as its direct clients.  It was the clients'  decision to 
select CL&P as their introducer.
There were  numerous  introducers  in the market and regulated  advisers who were
introducing/advising clients regarding the Store  First Investment and whose clients 
sought SIPP services  from Carey and other SIPP administrators. Carey had no 
reason to suspect  that because one of these - CL&P - had been offering cash  
inducements that there might be any particular issue or additional risks for clients in 
respect of the underlying investment.
The member declaration was very clear regarding what the investments were and, 
crucially, that they are high risk.
Careys response to the investigators view  
Carey didnt accept the investigators assessment and made the following  key points:
Cary doesnt give advice. It acts on a strictly member directed (or execution-only) 
basis. It expressly states that all customers should seek independent financial advice 
from an adviser regulated by the FCA.
Of the various reports referred  to by the investigator,  only the 2009 report  existed  at 
the time of the events in this complaint. The other guidance was published later and it 
cannot be in doubt  that the regulators expectations evolved  (and increased) 
substantially over time.
The FSA alert from 2010  simply amounted to a notification that Mr Wright  wasnt 
authorised to carry on regulated activities. And that this was a fact Carey  knew and 
was the basis  upon which it accepted referrals from CL&P.  It wasnt until the alert 
was updated in 2013 that there was a clear warning Mr Wright shouldnt be dealt 
with. Mr Ws SIPP  and investment applications had already been received and 
processed by this time.
Carey was obliged  by FSA rule COBS 11.2.19 to execute  the instruction Mr W had 
given to invest. This requirement as a rule must take precedence over any guidance 
the regulator had given then or later. 
The investigator didnt  refer to any specific law or regulation  for finding it liable. Carey 
isnt in a position to understand  the provisional  assessment until this is done.
Ref: DRN93835607More generally, Carey has also said that our consideration  of the complaint should await the 
High Courts decision in the case of Adams v Carey  as the ombudsman is obliged  to follow 
the law, and so far there has been no court decision on the duties of a SIPP provider  in 
situations such as those presented in this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
some preliminary points
delay deciding this case until judgment in Adams v Carey has been handed down? 
I dont consider it appropriate to wait for the outcome  of Adams  v Carey . That is a different 
case to this complaint  and Mr W isnt party to those proceedings.  That being said, I 
understand the case does involve an investment being made in Store First introduced by 
CL&P. But that case was heard in March  2018 and the judges decision has still not yet been  
handed down,  more than two years  later. As far as I am aware, theres  no publicly available 
information about when the decision is likely  to be published. And any judgment, when 
eventually handed  down, could be subject to appeal.   
The ombudsman service  is required to resolve  the complaints it receives quickly  and with 
minimum formality  (see section 225(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  
(FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2014] 
EWHC 3972 Admin).  I must therefore carefully  take this into consideration in deciding 
whether or not I should delay deciding this case until after the outcome in Adams v Carey  
becomes known. And, given the substantial  delay in the judgment being handed down, I 
dont think I should  delay deciding Mr Ws case.   
I am required to determine the complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances taking into account, but not being  bound by, various 
matters including  the law. I may depart from the law if I consider it fair and reasonable to do 
so, as long as I provide sufficient reasons for doing  so. 
Its also relevant here that there has been  judgment  by Jacobs J in relation to a judicial 
review in respect of a final determination  that specifically considered the due diligence  
obligations of SIPP operators: R (Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 2878). 
Berkeley Burke (BBSAL) had brought a claim for judicial review about a decision of an 
ombudsman which found that BBSAL as SIPP operator hadnt treated its client  fairly or 
reasonably when it accepted an investment into his SIPP. The ombudsman had found that 
the FCA Principles  and good industry  practice at the time meant that the SIPP  operator 
ought to have carried out due diligence before accepting  an investment into the SIPP. 
The judgment of Jacobs J provides a strong endorsement for the approach  taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint. The judgment  also considers section 228 FSMA and the 
approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. I accept Mr Ws complaint is 
different from the complaint in the BBSAL case,  and that each complaint will be determined  
on its own individual merits. However, the relevant considerations are similar. As a result,  in 
my view, its unnecessary to await the judgment  in Adams v Carey.
Ref: DRN93835608 
Ive carefully considered  the points made by Carey  in support of its view we shouldnt 
progress complaints like Mr Ws. In deciding that request Ive weighed  the interests of all the 
parties and my statutory  commitments. Having done so, I consider it wouldnt  be fair and 
reasonable to put this case on hold while we await the outcome of the separate civil claim.
oral hearing?
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite  the parties 
to take part in a hearing.
Carey hasnt requested  a hearing in this complaint  as such,  but Im aware it has suggested 
previously that there should be a hearing  because of the significance  of the issues and to 
allow it to better understand the investigators  reasoning (in other cases). Ive therefore 
thought about this carefully and in the specific circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied I 
can fairly determine the matter without a hearing.  In particular, I note:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service was set up as an informal  dispute resolution 
forum and this complaint  falls squarely within the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  
service. While I accept  the complaint is significant to both parties,  thats very often 
the case and that point  alone cannot  be the test for whether or not an oral hearing 
needs to be convened  in order  to fairly  determine the case. Theres  nothing in the 
particular circumstances of this case thats persuaded me it cant be fairly determined  
without a hearing. 
Carey clearly believes the ombudsman service  has misunderstood the applicable law 
and regulation and it has set out its position  clearly  in writing.
Both parties have  been given an ample  opportunity to make representations and set 
out their positions.  
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (R on the application  of Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
After carefully, taking account of all the available evidence, Im satisfied I can fairly  
determine this complaint  without convening  a hearing. 
a provisional decision? 
I note Carey has asked for us to respond  to specific points  before  I make a final decision. 
DISP 3.5.4R sets out the procedure I must follow when determining  a complaint: 
If the Ombudsman decides  that an investigation  is necessary,  he will then:
1.ensure both parties have been given  an opportunity of making representations;
2.send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time 
limit within  which either party must  respond; and
Ref: DRN938356093.if either party indicates disagreement  with the provisional assessment within  that 
time limit, proceed to determination.
Im satisfied the parties have been  given  adequate  opportunity to make  representations. 
Both parties  have also received a provisional  assessment, which  set out in detail  the 
investigators reasons  for reaching  his view (the provisional assessment). Carey disagrees  
with that assessment. 
Im required  to give reasons for my decision, not to give a point by point response to 
everything that has been said by the parties to the complaint. As recognised by the High 
Court in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2008] EWHC 2142, this service is 
dealing with complaints, not causes of action. Our jurisdiction is inquisitorial not adversarial, 
and were required to resolve complaints quickly and with the minimum of formality  in 
accordance with section  225 of FSMA. It would not be consistent with our powers or remit to 
do as Carey has asked and respond  to each and every point it has made  before making a 
determination. 
So the next step is for me to proceed  to determination. And Im satisfied its appropriate for 
me to do that here.
relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses  are of particular relevance to my decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The Principles for 
Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms  under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must  conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
clients and treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association)  v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) 
Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific rules.  
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would  be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
Ref: DRN938356010would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
Subsequently Jacobs  J at paragraph  104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration  Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman  Service   having set out some paragraphs of the British  Banking 
Association judgment, including paragraph 162 set out above, said;
These passages explain  the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument,  the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows  that they 
are, and indeed  were  always  intended  to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described  by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code  covering  all possible circumstances,  but instead to impose  general  
duties such as those  set out in Principles 2 and 6.
So, the Principles  have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, 2.1.1R in the Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant. It says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly  and professionally  in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests  rule).
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind  
SIPP operators of their obligations  and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic  review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter.
The September 2009 thematic review report pre-dates the events subject of this complaint 
and is therefore  particularly relevant. The report included  the following statement:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators,  regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states  that a member  of a 
pension scheme  is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer  in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP  operators to continuously analyse 
the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
Ref: DRN938356011management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting  the member  to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent  that they had not identified obvious potential instances  of 
poor advice  and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts  and 
circumstances of individual  cases,  we may take enforcement action against  SIPP  
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FSA, that they have  the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing to the firms  
clients, and that they do not appear  on the FSA website listing  warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate  clarification, e.g. from the client  or their 
adviser, if it is concerned  about  the suitability  of what was recommended.
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving  advice. While  SIPP operators are not responsible  for 
advice, having  this information would  enhance  the firms understanding  of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable  SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for their investment  decisions,  and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the 
reasons for this.
Ref: DRN938356012In the October  2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms  
further guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These  are not new or 
amended requirements,  but a reminder  of regulatory  responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member  of a pension  scheme  
is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business  with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise  and introduce prospective members  
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP  operators  include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals  or cancelled  
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does  not appear 
on the FCA website  listings  for un-authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships  and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing  SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what  their business objectives  are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business  they conduct and expect  to introduce,  the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP  operators.  
Being satisfied that they are appropriate  to deal with. 
Being  able to identify  irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large  transactions;  or higher risk investments such as unquoted  shares  
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek  appropriate  
clarification, for example  from the prospective  member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns. 
Identifying  instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this. 
Although the members  advisers are responsible  for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  
business it administers.  
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing  the firm 
Ref: DRN938356013with, is authentic and meets the firms  procedures  and are not being used to 
launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which  govern  
relationships and clarify  responsibilities  for relationships with other 
professional bodies  such as solicitors  and accountants, and 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  
operators have  considered the additional  risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October  2013 finalised SIPP  operator  guidance  said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing  the due diligence  the firm undertakes in respect  of the 
introducers that use their scheme  and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate  any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate  permissions,  
qualifications and skills to introduce  different types of business  to the 
firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected  parties  and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party  due diligence that the firm uses or relies  on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include  having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting  the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks  clearly  identify those instances  that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business,  or to undertake further investigations  
such as instances  of potential pension liberation,  investments  that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard  investments  that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014  Dear  CEO  letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles.
Ref: DRN938356014The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet  its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected  parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports  and the 
Dear CEO letter arent formal guidance  (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). 
However, the fact that the reports and Dear  CEO letter  didnt constitute  formal guidance 
doesnt mean their importance should be underestimated. As mentioned,  they provide a 
reminder that the Principles for Businesses  apply and are an indication  of the kinds  of things  
a SIPP  operator  might do to ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the 
regulators expectations of what SIPP operators  should be doing also goes some  way to 
indicate what I consider  amounts to good  industry  practice. 
I also note that Careys regulatory  obligations  under the Principles existed from the outset of 
Mr Ws relationship  with it. So the reports,  letter  and guidance  which  each gave the 
regulators view on the kinds of steps a SIPP operator might  take in practice  to achieve the 
outcomes envisaged  by the Principles  are each relevant considerations in this case. 
I recognise that the 2012 report,  the 2013  finalised guidance  and the Dear CEO letter were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin  them 
existed throughout,  as did the obligation  to act in accordance with the Principles and with 
COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule).
Its also clear  from the text of the 2009  and 2012  reports (and the Dear  CEO letter  in 2014)  
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended  good 
practices into the conduct of their business already.  So, whilst the regulators comments  
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the standards  shaped what  was 
expected of SIPP operators changed  over time, its clear the standards  themselves didnt 
change.
That doesnt  mean that in considering whats  fair and reasonable, Ill only consider Careys  
actions with these  documents  in mind. The reports,  letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive 
guidance. They did not say the suggestions  given were the limit of what  a SIPP  operator 
should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should  be done to meet  
regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN938356015So, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise  its business affairs responsibly  and effectively,  to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the clients best interests. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles  and the publications listed above, as well as COBS 2.1.1R to provide an 
indication of what Carey  could have done  to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
duties. 
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs.  Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding  
whether to accept  or reject particular  investments  and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided  some examples of good  practice  observed by the 
FSA and FCA during  their work with SIPP operators. 
the due diligence carried out by Carey on CL&P 
Its clear Carey understood  and accepted that it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on CL&P. On the non-regulated introducer  profile, Carey stated, 
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice  on unregulated introducer  firms  looking  to introduce client to us to 
gain some insight  into the business they carry out.
The evidence Carey  has provided indicates  it took the following due diligence  on CL&P:  
19 September 2011 - it obtained a print out of the CL&P website. This contained the 
following information:
we are working hard to become the leading  supplier  of commercial land and 
products across different areas with good long term growth.
expert advice tailored  to the individual  (my emphasis)
In accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, CLP brokers  do 
not provide any financial  advice.
20 September 2011  it completed background checks on two representatives of 
CL&P.
27 September 2011  it asked CL&P to complete  a non-regulated introducer profile.
29 September 2011- the non-regulated introducer profile was completed  by CL&P. It 
was signed by Terence Wright, and named him and Lesley Wright as directors  of 
CL&P. 
9 December 2011  it spoke to representatives of CL&P and discussed the high 
portion of business it had introduced which related to the transfer of final salary 
schemes, and the payment of cash  back incentives. It was agreed that in future any 
defined benefit  transfers would be referred  to a suitably qualified  IFA for relevant 
advice and a copy of that advice  would be provided to Carey for its file record.
Ref: DRN93835601613 March 2012  it asked CL&P to sign a non-regulated introducer  agreement,  
backdated to the time it first started  to refer business  to Carey (15 August 2011). 
23 March 2012  it asked CL&P for a copy of its accounts and passports  of the 
directors. 
3 April 2012  it repeated  its request  to CL&P for a copy  of its accounts and 
passports of the directors. 
15 May 2012  it completed a background check on Mr Wright, which  revealed he 
was the subject of an FSA alert.  
When taken together,  these efforts went  some  way towards meeting the examples of good  
practice set out by the regulator in the publications Ive set out above. I expect Careys 
action was taken  with these  and its overarching regulatory obligations  in mind. However, 
rather than conducting  sufficient due diligence proactively,  before  deciding to accept 
business from CL&P, in my view Carey  took a reactive  piecemeal  approach.  Acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations  Carey should have taken many of the steps it 
subsequently took prior to accepting any business  from CL&P.  If it had done so, I think  that 
ought to have led it to conclude that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to accept Mr Ws 
business from CL&P. Ive set out below in more detail the steps  I think  Carey should  have  
taken and what, acting fairly and reasonably, it should have concluded having taken those 
steps. 
what should  Carey have  done? 
 
the FSA warning 
At the very outset, I think Carey should have checked the regulators list of unauthorised 
firms and individuals. The list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals and 
businesses. Checking the warnings posted  on the FSAs website is something that Carey 
should have done as a matter of course  as a part of sufficient due diligence, before  it began  
accepting any business from CL&P. CL&P was an unregulated  business,  based in Spain, 
and was proposing to deal with the pensions of UK consumers, in an introductory capacity. 
As I explain later in this decision, I think if Carey had carried  out sufficient  due diligence,  or 
drawn reasonable conclusions from what it already knew, it ought to have known CL&P was 
going to be doing more  than merely  introducing consumers to Careys SIPP. But, in any 
event, Carey ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, relating to unregulated 
businesses, which were  often based  overseas, dealing with UK consumers. As a SIPP  
operator considering accepting business  from an unregulated overseas firm it should have 
been mindful of this list and, acting fairly and reasonably, it ought to have checked it before 
proceeding. 
I note that the non-regulated introducer profile  had a question which asked Are you and/or 
the Firm subject to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. 
Mr Wright  answered that question No. However, it was not sufficient in my view to simply 
ask the introducer a general question. Rather,  I think Carey, acting fairly and in Mr Ws best 
interests, should have  carried  out checks on Mr Wright. I think  a reasonable step for it to 
have taken was to check the FSAs list of warnings. Had it done so, it would  have discovered  
that Mr Wright was on the list and subject of the warning I have quoted  in the background  
section. 
Ref: DRN938356017I also note the background checking  service  Carey used revealed Mr Wrights presence on 
the list when it ran a check on him on 15 May 2012. When Carey began accepting  business 
from CL&P it used this checking service, but used it to check  two representatives of CL&P, 
rather than to check Mr Wright. I agree with what the investigator said about  this in his view 
 acting fairly and reasonably Carey should  have checked Mr Wright  at the outset,  not two 
representatives of CL&P. The available evidence shows Carey knew Mr Wright was a 
director of CL&P  it is therefore him they should have checked at the outset. 
So I think that Carey, acting fairly and reasonably, should have checked the FSAs list at the 
outset, and would have checked the FSAs list at the outset (via the checking service). 
I note that Carey ended  its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. It therefore seems likely this check was a factor in its decision to end the 
relationship. So had Carey focussed  its checks on the correct  target  at the outset  it may 
have led it to draw a different conclusion about the acceptance of business from CL&P  at the 
outset. 
Carey has said the alert relating to Mr Wright was a notice that amounts simply to a 
notification that he wasnt authorised to carry on regulated activities. And that this was a fact 
it was well aware of and was the basis upon  which it accepted referrals from CL&P.
I think Mr Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have highlighted to Carey  that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Mr Wrights activities to warn consumers about him. 
And I think in the circumstances its fair and reasonable  to conclude the warning was aimed 
at protecting consumers  from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning  should  have acted as a significant reason for Carey  to 
be concerned about  any business Mr Wright was involved  in  not just Cash  In Your 
Pension. The warning  mentioned that Mr Wright  was involved in the area of pensions   
which is the same business area as CL&P was active  in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright  was not authorised and may be targeting  UK customers in connection with 
investment business  conducted through an unregulated company, Cash  In Your  Pension.  
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after hed answered no to a question  
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Carey  it should have given rise to significant concern about his conduct.  
Carey has tried to downplay the significance of the 2010 warning by contrasting  it with one 
that was published in 2013. It says that the 2010  warning doesnt  detail any concern by the 
regulator about Mr Wright.  I accept  that the 2013 warning provides strong advice  to only deal 
with financial firms authorised by the FCA.  However,  I dont agree with Careys 
characterisation of the 2010 warning or any suggestion  the regulator  didnt  detail any 
concern about  him in the 2010 warning. Whilst it doesnt explicitly say that Mr Wright had 
been undertaking a regulated activity, the inference  that he had is, in my view, clear.  If the 
regulator had no concerns  it wouldnt  have  issued an alert in order to warn investors against 
dealing with unauthorised firms followed by advice telling members of the public that 
Mr Wright  wasnt authorised to carry on a regulated  activity including  advising on 
investments. 
Carey accepts that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time of it 
accepting business  from CL&P,  would have  been  sufficient to stop it doing  business with 
Mr Wright/CL&P.  Carey  has said:
Ref: DRN938356018The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear warning including  an 
express comment that Mr Wright  was an individual to avoid, a warning that would 
have put Carey Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright. (my 
emphasis)
In my view the October 2010 warning was also a clear indication  that the regulator  had 
serious concerns  about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore  should 
equally have  put Carey on notice that it shouldnt accept business  from him.  
A warning headed ALERT in bold is clearly not a routine, unimportant document. Its clear 
from the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised 
firms and specifically named Mr Wright.  He was involved in targeting  (to use the FSAs 
phrase) UK based  pension  investors,  which should  have been of particular concern for a 
SIPP operator considering accepting business from him. The warning also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised  firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about  the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms  
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
So the warning  was more than a mere statement of fact that an unauthorised firm couldnt  
carry out regulated  activities. It was a clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to 
Mr Wright, providing links to guidance  on consumer protection and warnings about scams. In 
my view the 2010 warning  is as serious in its implications as the 2013  warning. 
So in summary,  if Carey had undertaken sufficient  due diligence on CL&P  it would  have 
discovered its director, Mr Wright, was on the FSA warning list and, acting fairly and 
reasonably, that it should have declined to do business with him. I think this alone  was 
sufficient for Carey to conclude, acting fairly and reasonably and taking account of the need 
to act in Mr Ws best interests, that it shouldnt have accepted  business  from CL&P.  
CL&Ps business model 
As Ive highlighted above, in the circumstances, I think that acting in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr W fairly, the 2010 warning alone 
should have resulted in Carey declining to do business with CL&P. However,  as Carey 
doesnt accept  that the 2010 warning  should have led it to conclude it shouldnt  accept  
business from CL&P I have, for completeness, considered what other  due diligence Carey 
should have carried  out, as an absolute  minimum.
Carey should have made enquiries to satisfy  itself CL&P was not conducting business in a 
way that could result in a real risk of detriment for consumers.  In complying with its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr W fairly, its fair and reasonable to say 
Carey should have ensured  that it fully understood CL&Ps  business  model  before it 
accepted any business from it. And I note Carey appears to have recognised  this itself, 
having explained in the introduction to the non-regulated introducer profile As an FSA 
regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on 
unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce  client to us to gain some insight into the 
business they carry out.
Ref: DRN938356019Carey has said that it reasonably considered  at all times that CL&P  was an unregulated 
introducer that wasnt providing advice.  However,  I dont agree this is a reasonable 
conclusion given the information  that was either readily available  at the time or that could 
have been discovered through a basic level of due diligence. Rather, I think  there was a 
significant risk that CL&P was targeting UK pension consumers and giving  them advice even 
though it wasnt  regulated  to do so. 
Mr W says CL&P  aggressively  promoted  the Store First investment and I think its fair to say 
that its unusual  for people to make important decisions about  their pensions without advice 
or a recommendation about where  to invest funds  particularly  where  the investment is high 
risk and unregulated. Theres also no suggestion  that Mr W spoke to anyone else about his 
pension options  or that any other  party was involved. So I think  on balance its likely that 
Mr W was advised by CL&P to make the Store First investment. 
This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of Careys  thinking when 
dealing with an unregulated business  like CL&P - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Mr Wright who the FSA believed was targeting UK customers, and the 
reference to advice  contained in the print out of CL&Ps website Carey had regard to. 
I think given Careys regulatory obligations, its fair and reasonable, to say it should have 
taken steps to understand much more  about what CL&Ps business model involved beyond 
the limited information  contained in the non-regulated  introducer profile and the other basic  
enquiries it made. Carey  should, for example,  have  followed up on the very brief answers 
provided on the introducer profile  about  how CL&P  actually contacted  potential  customers,  
the type of investments it would be introducing, what information  was being provided  to 
customers, what steps were being  taken to ensure customers were  not advised  or were 
directed to a regulated adviser, and how CL&P ensured it wasnt conducting other  regulated 
activities.
If it had conducted  further enquiries as part of its due diligence before accepting  this 
business I think Carey would have (or ought to have) identified  it was unusual that CL&P, an 
unregulated business based  in Spain, was contacting consumers in the UK about  pension 
investments. I think its likely it would have found that CL&P  was calling customers to 
discuss their pensions,  that it specialised in a few high risk esoteric investments and, 
following contact from CL&P,  and without the involvement of any other regulated parties,  
many UK consumers were transferring  their pensions  to SIPPs  to make these investments. I 
also think its likely that Carey would  have found  were insufficient safeguards against  advice 
being given. 
Knowing this, and the regulators  warning  about  Mr Wright, I think  Carey ought to have 
identified there was a real and significant  risk of consumer detriment in introductions  made to 
it by CL&P. This ought to have given  it further  reason  to conclude that it wouldnt be 
consistent with its regulatory obligations  - it wouldnt be treating Mr W fairly  and in his best 
interests - to accept business from CL&P.
I accept theres a possibility that, if Carey had made enquiries, CL&P might  not have been 
forthcoming with information about its business  model. But thats  not a reasonable basis for 
not making reasonable enquires.  Further, if CL&P was reluctant or refused to provide 
information about its business model  or if its answers were  ambiguous  and contradictory that 
ought to have been something in and of itself that made Carey  concerned  about  the integrity 
and motivations of those  operating it. As such,  I think this too should  have  led Carey to 
Ref: DRN938356020conclude there was a real risk of consumer detriment and that it wouldnt be treating Mr W 
fairly and in his best interests  in accepting his introduction from CL&P.  
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think  in the 
circumstances its fair and reasonable for me to conclude Carey failed to conduct sufficient 
due diligence  on CL&P before accepting business from it, and if it had carried out proper due 
diligence, that it ought to have concluded  it shouldnt accept any business  from it. I therefore  
conclude that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to say that Carey shouldnt have 
accepted Mr Ws application.
cash incentives 
In November 2011, Carey  became aware  of a number of consumers who had received 
incentive payments  to move their pensions to Carey. Such payments are against the rules 
covering pensions and can attract a substantial  tax charge from HMRC.  On becoming aware 
of this, Carey spoke to CL&P. But I think it ought  to have  spoken to consumers directly about  
this, not just to CL&P. And I think  such action  would have led to the conclusion that cash  
incentive payments  were  being offered by CL&P. 
In the light of that, I think Carey ought to have concluded it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from CL&P   whether that was new 
business or pipeline business consisting of applications accepted but not completed.  In 
light of this serious allegation, I think  Carey should have questioned whether CL&P was a 
suitable and trustworthy firm to be dealing with. In my mind  this should have been a 
significant red flag.  
I make  these  further points only for completeness, as they refer to things which  happened  
after Mr Ws application had been accepted.  For the reasons I have set out, I do not think 
Carey should have accepted the application  at all. 
should Carey have  proceeded  regardless?  
the member declaration and indemnity 
The member  declaration signed by Mr W sought  to confirm he was aware the investment 
was high risk, had taken  his own advice, and would not hold Carey responsible for any 
liability resulting  from the investment. 
The main  point to make here is that Carey  should  never have accepted the business  from 
CL&P, for the reasons  given. So Mr W should  never  have got to the point of signing the 
declaration, as the business should  not have come  about at all. 
In any event, I dont think  these documents, in themselves, are sufficient for me to conclude 
that Carey acted fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ws instructions. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Ref: DRN938356021With this in mind, I think Carey ought to have been  cautious about accepting  Mr Ws 
application and because of the documents he had signed. There was no evidence of any 
other (than Carey) regulated party being involved in this transaction. In these  circumstances 
I think very little comfort could have  been  taken from the declaration stating that Mr W had 
taken his own advice,  and understood the risks in relation to the investment. 
Carey accepting business whilst  asking Mr W to sign documents to absolve  it of all 
responsibility was not treating him fairly,  given  what Carey  ought to have known. Carey was 
the regulated  entity here. It had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory 
obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view,  asking  Mr W to sign an indemnity 
absolving it of all responsibility when it ought  to have known  that his dealings with CL&P 
were putting  him at significant risk was not the fair and reasonable thing to do. It should have 
refused the business, not gone ahead regardless and asked Mr W to absolve it of the 
consequences. 
COBS 11.2.19R
Carey has made the point  that COBS 11.2.19 R obliged it to execute investment instructions. 
It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, its obligated  to execute the 
specific instructions of its client. 
However, in the circumstances  it is my view that the crux of the issue  in this complaint is 
whether Carey should have accepted the SIPP application from CL&P and established  
Mr W's SIPP in the first place. And, for the reasons I set out above, I dont believe it should 
have. 
This argument was considered and rejected by the judge in the recent case  of Berkeley 
Burke v Financial Ombudsman Service. In this case Jacobs J said:   
The heading  to COBS 11.2.1R  shows that it is concerned with the manner in which  
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most  favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution.  The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect.  The expression when executing orders  
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order,  
and the way in which the firm must then conduct  itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution;  a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely  whether a particular order should  be 
executed at all. I agree  with the FCAs submission that COBS  11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client  orders, and is designed  
to achieve a high quality  of execution.  It presupposes that there is an order  being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must  be taken into account  when  deciding  
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont  think that Careys argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles  to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP  in the first 
place. 
in conclusion
Ref: DRN938356022All in all, I do not consider  that Carey acted  with due skill, care and diligence, organised and 
controlled its affairs responsibly, or treated  Mr W fairly or acted in his best interests by 
accepting his business from CL&P. To my mind,  Carey did not meet  its regulatory  
obligations, and allowed  Mr W to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result. 
To be clear, Im not making  a finding that Carey should have assessed the suitability of the 
investment or the SIPP for Mr W. Im not saying it had an obligation to give advice to Mr W, 
or otherwise ensure  the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. My finding is 
not that Carey  should have concluded that the investment or SIPP was not suitable for 
Mr W. It is that Carey  did not meet its regulatory  obligations and should not have accepted 
the business from CL&P. It failed to treat Mr W fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence 
or take reasonable care to organise and control  its affairs responsibly by doing so. And, in 
the circumstances, its fair and reasonable for Carey  to be held responsible for its failings.
is it fair to ask Carey  to pay compensation?  
Carey says it wasnt aware Mr W was receiving an incentive payment and has said it 
wouldnt have accepted with an application  if it had been. But I cant see that Carey asked 
Mr W about incentive payments and it wasnt included  in the declaration  and indemnity he 
signed. As Ive already said, I dont think Mr W was an experienced or sophisticated investor 
who would  have been aware  of the potential significance of the incentive  payment or that he 
should somehow  be considered at fault for not telling Carey  about it. 
In deciding whether  Carey  is responsible  for any losses Mr W has suffered on his Store  First 
investment, I need to look at what would have happened if it had done what  it should have, 
i.e. not accepted his application.  
Had Carey undertaken  sufficient due diligence before or at the time Mr Ws business was 
introduced to it, it ought to have concluded that it shouldnt accept business  from CL&P.  That 
should have been the end of the matter  it should have told Mr W it couldnt accept the 
business. And Im satisfied, if that had happened, the arrangement  for Mr W wouldnt have  
come about  in the first place, and the loss he suffered could have been avoided. The 
financial loss has flowed  from Mr W transferring out of his existing pension and into a SIPP.  
For the reasons  I set out below, Im satisfied that, had the SIPP  application not been 
accepted, the loss wouldnt have  been suffered. 
Had Carey explained  to Mr W that it wouldnt accept the application  from CL&P, I find it very 
unlikely he would have  tried to find another SIPP operator to accept the business. Hes likely 
to have had no trust in CL&P  once he became aware Carey wouldnt accept the business. In 
any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable to say Carey shouldnt be responsible  for its 
errors because another SIPP operator would have  made the same mistakes. I think its fair 
instead to assume  that another SIPP provider wouldnt have processed the transaction  if it 
had carried out sufficient due diligence in accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities 
and good industry  practice. So again,  I think the end result  would have been that Mr W 
wouldnt have made the Store First investment  or the transfers  from his existing pension that 
preceded it. 
So Im satisfied Mr W wouldnt have continued with the SIPP, had it not been  for Careys 
failings, and would have remained in his existing pension. And, whilst  I accept  CL&P is 
responsible for initiating the course  of action that has led to his loss, I consider that Carey  
failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity  and 
obligation to do so.
Ref: DRN938356023In making these findings, Ive taken account  of the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr W. In my view, in considering what  fair compensation 
looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against Carey  that requires it to 
compensate Mr W for the full measure of his loss. But for Careys failings, Mr Ws pension  
transfer would not have  occurred in the first place. 
I am not asking Carey  to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have  caused the full extent of the loss in question.  That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  Im not able to 
determine. However, that fact should  not impact on Mr Ws right to compensation from Carey 
for the full amount  of his loss.  
putting things right
My aim is to return Mr W to the position  he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Careys failure to carry out adequate  due diligence checks before accepting  his SIPP 
application from CL&P.  
In light of the above, Carey should calculate fair compensation  by comparing the current  
position to the position  Mr W would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension.  
In summary,  Carey should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer. 
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment.
3.Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ws pension. If thats not possible,  pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr W direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary  adjustments set out below.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Carey, it should  have the option  of payment of this redress  being 
contingent upon Mr W assigning any claim he may have against CL&P to Carey. The terms 
of the assignment  should require Carey to account  to Mr W for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against CL&P that exceeds  the loss paid to him. 
Ill explain  how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further  detail 
below:
1.Calculate the loss suffered  as a result of making  the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Ws pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where  it was instead  of transferring to the SIPP.  
Carey should ask Mr W's former pension provider to calculate  the current notional transfer 
value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  index should  be used to 
calculate the value. Thats likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds  had been chosen.
Ref: DRN938356024The notional transfer value should be compared  to the transfer  value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr W has suffered. The Store First investment 
should be assumed  to have no value. Account should however be taken of the cash  back  
incentive payment  Mr W received.
2.Take ownership of the Store  First investment
I understand Carey  has been able to take ownership  of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible, so Mr W can close  his SIPP. 
If Carey is unable  to take ownership of the Store First investment, it should remain  in the 
SIPP. I believe thats fair because I think its unlikely to have any value in the future, and I 
understand Mr W has the option  of returning  his investment to the freeholder for nil 
consideration, which would enable him to close his SIPP. 
In the event the investment remains in the SIPP and Mr W decides not to transfer it to the 
freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated  with the 
investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any other  
charges. He should also be aware  its unlikely hell be able to make a further complaint about 
these costs.
3.Pay compensation for the loss calculated  in (1). 
If possible the compensation  for the loss should  be paid into the pension. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. Payment into the pension should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available  
tax relief. This may mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and 
reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr W could claim. The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax.  
On the other hand, Mr W may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should  be paid to Mr W direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr W should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance  should be calculated  using 
Mr Ws marginal  rate of tax in retirement.  For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4.Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I think the discovery that hed lost significant pension  benefits in this way would have caused 
Mr W considerable unnecessary trouble and upset  and that he should be compensated for 
that. The precise impact  of this and therefore the amount to award is difficult to assess. But 
in the circumstances, I think a substantial payment of £500 is fair.
SIPP fees
The investigator said in his view that future SIPP fees should be waived. However,  as the 
investment can be removed from the SIPP  I dont think any allowance  needs to be made  for 
Ref: DRN938356025future fees.  As mentioned, if Mr W decides  to retain  the investment  (assuming  Carey  doesnt 
take ownership)  he should be aware that hes liable for the future costs associated with it. 
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within  28 days of the date Carey  receives  
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added  to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation isnt paid within 28 days. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr W accepts my decision, Options SIPP UK LLP must pay put things right using the 
method set out above. It should  provide  Mr W with details of its calculations in a clear and 
understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9383560