K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably  when  
dealing with their mortgage application. They want  either to have the benefit of the original 
interest rate they were  offered or the ability to go elsewhere without paying an early 
repayment charge.
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a mortgage to buy a property. They said that Barclays incorrectly  
said that their mortgage application had expired days before completion, despite  it saying in 
writing that the offer expired in January 2019. Mr and Mrs W denied being  told in a meeting 
that the application expired in November 2018 and relied on what was stated in writing. 
Mr and Mrs W said Barclays actions  left them no choice but to take out a new product  with it 
to complete.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Barclays. It said that there were  delays in progressing matters,  
but they werent caused by it; for example, it noted  that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors asked in 
September 2018 for the funds not to be released.  Barclays said that mortgage applications 
were only open  for six months; it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. Barclays explained  that this application  hadnt  been 
straight-forward. The first mortgage offer said that it would  expire  1 November. But a second  
one was issued  when a new application was made  in July, and this offer expired in 
January 2019.  Matters  were complicated  by the fact the original mortgage  had been  paid in 
full in July and part of the mortgage application  included a porting application  (an application 
to transfer the interest rate from the original  mortgage to the new one).  To be allowed to port 
the interest rate, the new mortgage had to be in place  within  90 days  of the redemption  of 
the original mortgage under Barclays lending policies. This wouldnt be achieved due to the 
final completion date of 20 November. This was noted by Barclays on 6 November and it 
was this that led to the closure of the application  and the need  for Mr and Mrs W to make a 
third application  and pick a product from those  available at the time. Barclays said that the 
mortgage offers made it clear that there  was a 90 day window to port the mortgage, or a new 
product would be needed.
The investigators view was that Barclays didnt do enough during the second mortgage 
application to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that the terms and conditions  of the second 
mortgage offer meant that it would expire in October 2018, not January 2019 as first stated, 
due to the sale of the original property in July. He didnt think  that there  was a realistic 
chance that the porting  application wouldve completed before the 90 days had passed 
though. The investigator thought Barclays should pay £400  compensation to Mr and Mrs W 
for the trouble and upset  caused by its failure to be clearer about  the full position.
Barclays disagreed.  It said that Mr and Mrs W were aware of the 90 day window to port the 
mortgage rate from when  the original property  was sold; Barclays said this was made clear 
from the first meeting and was confirmed in the mortgage offers (which Mr and Mrs Ws 
solicitor should have highlighted to them).  It disagreed that it was unlikely that the second 
application wouldve  completed in time to allow the porting  application.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN94163772From looking  at all the evidence available to me, its clear  that Mr and Mrs Ws second 
mortgage application ended due to the 90 day porting window  policy. In other words, once 
the original property was sold and the mortgage  repaid  in full, there was only 90 days  to 
complete the new mortgage; otherwise, the product chosen was no longer available and 
Mr and Mrs W had to choose  a new product.
Mr and Mrs W say that this was unfair  and unreasonable as the second mortgage offer said 
that it would  expire  in January 2019. I disagree.  The terms and conditions of the mortgage 
offer are complex I accept, but Mr and Mrs W were advised by a solicitor.  While the position  
couldve been explained differently within the offer, the very first special condition sets out 
clearly the 90 day rule and the need  to pick a new product if the window is missed. Mortgage 
offers arent designed to give bespoke information  about the circumstances  of individual  
consumers, such as when  their porting window ends.
And the special condition  about the 90 day window  wasnt the first time this was mentioned  
to Mr and Mrs W. It was set out in the first mortgage  offer. Critically, the notes of the first 
meeting set out that this was mentioned, though  the notes stated that Mr and Mrs W were 
told that the porting window was 30 days,  not 90; this number might  be a typing  error.  The 
notes were written at the time and I place weight on this evidence  that Mr and Mrs W were  
told about the porting window.
Also porting  applications  and porting windows arent  unusual. Its part of the role of the 
solicitor to explain this to Mr and Mrs W. Barclays  told Mr and Mrs W about the window at 
the first meeting and repeated the information in the mortgage offers. I also think  that it was 
possible to complete the second mortgage application in time and the decision to delay 
wasnt due to any action  of Barclays.
Mr and Mrs W said that they had no choice but to take out a different product with Barclays. I 
disagree. They couldve delayed completion  and gone elsewhere. They  couldve chosen  a 
different product. Mr and Mrs W were  given the details of the product they took out and 
decided to go ahead.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs W said that they were disappointed  but 
had no further  comment to make. Barclays didnt respond.
Ive reviewed my provisional  decision,  the evidence  and considered  the responses Ive 
received. But I still think  that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable and no reason 
has been given  why it should  be changed.
Ref: DRN94163773my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject  my 
decision before  13 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9416377