K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that OneSavings  Bank  Plc (OSB) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from May 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. OSB didnt  respond further. Mr and Mrs M provided some 
further comments that I will address below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs M say that, in their opinion, businesses should not be selling products if they 
arent suitable for the consumer. And in this case they say the policy  wasnt  suitable because 
theyd stated during  the mortgage application  process that they wanted to over-pay the 
mortgage each  month.  They therefore  think OSB should have advised them not to take out 
the PPI but to use the money to over-pay. They have also said that, as it was an interest 
only mortgage, they had an endowment, PEPs and ISAs to support it.
OSB would only have  had an obligation to ensure  that the policy  was suitable if this was 
what we call an advised sale. But as I have already found, this was not an advised  sale.  It 
was instead an information only sale. Therefore  OSB only had to provide  enough  
information for Mr and Mrs M to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not 
the policy met their needs. Knowing  that the policy  provided protection for their mortgage  
repayments, Mr and Mrs M decided to take it out. The policy premiums were a relatively  
small amount compared to their mortgage  repayments.
The purpose of Mr and Mrs Ms endowment and other accounts  was to act as investment 
vehicles to pay off the mortgage at the end of its term.  So in that sense they werent  
available savings that the couple would have wanted to use to make  the mortgage  
repayments if Mr M had been unable to work.  It isnt always  ideal to take money  out of such 
accounts  for instance that might  incur early redemption fees or loss of interest. Besides, Mr 
and Mrs M knew  that they had these accounts,  but decided to buy the PPI regardless.  The 
fact that Mr and Mrs M intended to over-pay the mortgage doesnt mean that they wouldnt  
have found the policy useful in the event that they needed to claim on it.
In terms of information, by calling up to cancel the policy  just prior to his 65th birthday,  Mr M 
demonstrated that he had some  awareness  of the policy terms that directly affected him. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said that OSB inferred that the mortgage would not be protected  and 
explained what might  happen if they didnt have PPI. They say this sowed  the seeds of 
doubt. OSB had also said that the PPI was only available at the time of taking out the 
mortgage and not later. Ive seen  a copy of the letter that OSB sent to Mr and Mrs M offering 
them the chance to buy the PPI, with the first six months free. It says that records show that 
their mortgage will not currently be protected, which is factually correct. I dont see anything 
Ref: DRN98358742wrong with OSB highlighting that the couple didnt have insurance to cover their mortgage 
repayments and drawing attention to a product that they could buy if they wanted such 
cover.
With regard to whether  interest was charged  on the PPI premiums,  Mr and Mrs M have  
provided a couple of their annual mortgage statements for me to review. Unfortunately the 
annual statements arent as detailed as they might be. They only show an opening and 
closing balance, and they simply show the annual total cost of the PPI rather  than the 
monthly premiums being debited and credited and the resulting monthly balance.  Its 
therefore not possible for me to conclude  from these statements the exact method of interest 
calculation being  used. I accept that it is possible that the premiums did attract  a small 
amount of interest  (for example, from the 2006 statement provided it could have been  
around £8 for the year). As Mr and Mrs M were overpaying the mortgage, any interest  was 
less than it would otherwise  have been.  Overall,  given  the potential  benefits of the policy, I 
dont think that such a small amount of interest (if indeed there was interest) would have put 
them off buying  the policy. And, in contrast to single premium policies as explained in my 
provisional decision, no interest  would have been charged beyond the policy being 
cancelled.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs M for the reasonable and credible arguments  that they have put 
forward. But overall I am not persuaded to alter the outcome I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I dont uphold their complaint that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98358743COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained  that OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage and the PPI in 2002. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI 
only covered  Mr M.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. OSB disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
After the mortgage had been arranged, OSB wrote to Mr and Mrs M to offer them  PPI. Mr M 
completed and returned the application form by post. As the mortgage application had already been  
completed and agreed, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would  have thought  they needed to take the PPI as 
a condition of the mortgage. It seems to me that they decided to buy the policy, knowing that they 
didnt have to.
OSB didnt  advise Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met their needs.  
But it did need  to provide them with enough  information for them  to make an informed choice about 
whether or not the policy  was right for them.
I think  Mr and Mrs M must have known  something about the policy  that it would cover their 
mortgage repayments if Mr M was unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont  think  theyd  have decided to take it out without knowing anything  at all about it.
It seems appropriate that the policy was set up just to cover  Mr M  he was by far the main wage 
earner as Mrs M worked part-time. So it seems  that Mr and Mrs M did give consideration to how the 
policy would work best for them.
Mr M says he would have received at least 12 months  sick pay from his job. But the policy  would 
have paid out in addition to this and potentially  for longer than Mr M would have received full pay for. 
And Mr and Mrs M havent  mentioned having any savings  that they could fall back  on. So I think the 
policy could have provided a useful benefit at what would have  been a difficult  time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences  of defaulting on it can be 
serious. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs M had an interest in protecting their mortgage 
repayments.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because Mr M was 57 at the time that he took out the policy. 
The mortgage  was set to run for 11 years but Mr M would only have been able to benefit  from the 
policy for eight years  as the policy would end when  someone  turned 65. This is where my view differs 
from that of our adjudicator.
There are some instances  where it would not be suitable to have a mis-match between the term of the 
mortgage and the term of the policy, such as where the policy is paid for by means  of a single  
Ref: DRN98358744premium. That is where someone pays for a policy by borrowing  a lump sum that is added to the loan. 
In such  cases a policyholder would be paying for the policy for the whole term of the mortgage,  even if 
the PPI policy ended earlier. And the single premium borrowed up front would  also incur interest over 
the whole term of the mortgage. However  in this case, Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI by monthly 
premium, so they werent paying any interest on those premiums. The policy  could also have been 
cancelled at any time if Mr and Mrs M felt they no longer  wanted  it. And it appears that they were 
aware that cover ended at the age of 65, because  Mr M wrote to OSB just before his 65th birthday 
asking for the policy to be cancelled. Mr M would have been able to benefit  from the policy for eight 
years before he became ineligible for it.
Its possible that OSB didnt provide as much  information as it could have about  the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of those  things (for example he 
didnt have a pre-existing  medical condition). As I think Mr and Mrs M had a need for the cover and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
It follows that I dont currently conclude  that the PPI was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835874