K820x#14complaint
Mr F says that FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as Motonovo Finance) has mishandled 
his complaint that a used car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement wasnt of 
satisfactory condition.
background
In October 2017 Mr F acquired a used car from Motonovo under a hire purchase 
agreement. The car was just over 10 years old and had a mileage of 98,000. Within a few 
days Mr F complained about the condition of the car to the dealership as the bonnet  had 
opened while he was driving. The problems were  fixed by a garage recommended  by the 
dealership.
At the end of November  Mr F raised a further  complaint  about  the quality of the car and in 
January 2018  Mr F said he wouldnt  make any further payments on the car until the 
issues were resolved. So in February  2018 Motonovo arranged  for the car to be 
inspected by an independent engineer.
The independent engineer reported that there were two faults with the car. These were 
that the rear window isolation switch  didnt work  and that the exhaust was of a modified 
design and may be leaking as there was smoke  odour in the cabin. The independent 
engineer said that the exhaust system wouldve been faulty,  or developing a fault at the 
point of sale and so the cost of repair should  be borne by Motonovo.
Motonovo asked  Mr F to get two quotes  for replacing the exhaust system. Mr F supplied  
two quotes, the first being just over £1500 and the second £1600. He said that the car 
needed a MOT and without the exhaust  being replaced it wouldnt pass.
In March the car passed its MOT  without  any advisories  and the mileage was recorded  as 
just over 105,000. Mr F said that the car passed  the MOT because hed had the defective 
exhaust changed for the MOT test and then had the original system put back.  He didnt 
tell Motonovo  what hed done.
Motonovo considered allowing Mr F to reject the car due the independent engineers  
opinion. It consulted  with the dealer. Motonovo then decided to decline Mr F the option of 
being able to reject  the car as faulty.  This was because it had become aware the car had 
successfully passed  its MOT and Mr F had said that no repairs had been carried out to the 
car when  it had asked  him. Mr F had also been  able to drive the car for 7000 miles since  
hed acquired  it. However, Motonovo said it would reconsider  the complaint if Mr F could 
produce another report setting out the faults  with the car or if he had evidence  the MOT was 
wrong.
Mr F complained to this service about  Motonovos decision. Mr F explained the car had 
only passed the MOT  because hed had the defective exhaust  temporarily  changed for the 
MOT test. Hed then had the original exhaust  system  put back. Our investigator,  
notwithstanding some  concern  over the way the MOT had been  obtained,  recommended  
that Mr Fs complaint  should be partially  upheld. She said she thought it was fair for 
Motonovo to either repair Mr Fs car in accordance with the issues  identified in the 
independent engineers report or pay a cash equivalent for the cost of the repairs.
Ref: DRN93798492Motonovo disagreed with our investigators view. It said that the MOT in April 2017  passed 
so there  couldnt  have  been any faults  with the exhaust then. Mr F had then proceeded to 
have the exhaust system changed on two occasions which  wasnt  consistent with saying 
the car hadnt  had any repairs carried out. It also said that the independent engineer had 
noted the smell of smoke in the cabin which was possibly as a result of a modification  
which appeared to suggest the opinion had been reached on the smell rather than an 
inspection of the exhaust system.
As the parties  couldnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for decision.  I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines. 
Mr F said hed complained about the exhaust having  noted  very shortly after he acquired 
the car that it was modified. The dealer  said the modified exhaust wasnt raised with them.  
Id seen from the invoice of the repairs carried out on the behalf of the dealer in October 
2017, shortly after Mr F acquired the car, that the exhaust system was rectified  as it was 
touching the rear axle. I understood from the dealer that Mr F had 14 days to raise  any 
issues with the work  undertaken on the car and he didnt  do so. Id also seen that the 
repairs which had been carried  out were quite  minor  such as fixing the aerial and number  
plate.
Mr F said he was concerned that the modified exhaust might  be illegal and so affect his 
insurance. It was a query hed raised  with Motonovo. I hadnt seen that it provided  any 
reassurance on this point  to Mr F but I noted  that Mr F drove  the car for around 7000 
miles in the time he had it up to the new MOT being  carried out.
I was concerned by Mr Fs behaviour with the car and changing  the exhaust system.  He 
appeared to have been less than open with Motonovo  as hed denied the car had had any 
work when  it passed its MOT. He had also driven  a considerable number of miles in car 
with an apparent defective  exhaust, especially if thered been noticeable fumes in the cars 
cabin. Im afraid that this undermined  his credibility.
I accepted Mr F had problems with the car very shortly after hed acquired it. These were 
repaired by the garage nominated by the dealer who paid for them. Mr F then continued to 
be unhappy about the condition of the car. So Motonovo arranged  for it to be inspected.  
When the independent engineer looked at the car in February 2018 Mr F had driven 2,352 
miles in it. The engineer  found two faults;  one was the rear window isolation switch  and the 
other the modified exhaust. The engineer thought the window was an electrical fault and he 
wasnt able to say if this wouldve been  present at the point  of sale as such faults can 
develop instantaneously. However  he said that the exhaust system was of a modified design 
and that the smell of smoke in the cars cabin meant  there could be a leakage. He said the 
car should be returned to the dealer for the exhaust  to be investigated. The engineer  didnt 
say the exhaust  was illegal due to the modification.  
Following the independent  engineers inspection Motonovo asked for Mr F to get two quotes 
for the cars exhaust to be repaired.  It was the size of those  quotes,  and the fact that 
Motonovo became aware that the car had passed  its MOT  without any advisories, and had 
also been driven a further 4500 miles that led to Motonovo  to look again at Mr Fs complaint. 
And in the circumstances I couldnt  say that was unreasonable of Motonovo.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car must be of satisfactory quality and fit for 
purpose. For a used car the consideration of being of satisfactory quality  has to take 
account of the age, value and mileage  of the car. So a car of this age and mileage wouldnt 
Ref: DRN93798493be fault free and some wear and tear would  be expected. I appreciated this car had a 
modified exhaust  when  it was inspected in the February 2018, but by the March there was 
no issue with it as it passed its MOT. A leaking or illegally modified exhaust wouldve been  
an instant fail. So I was satisfied that in March  2018 the car was of a satisfactory  quality.
Mr F has admitted changing the exhaust system  twice.  And that he got the exhaust fixed in 
order of the car to pass the MOT. I struggled to understand why he then changed it back.  
As this repair made the car of satisfactory  quality I didnt think it was fair and reasonable to 
now allow  Mr F reject the car.
As the evidence was unclear I didnt think I could reasonably rely on the independent 
experts report as evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I didnt 
think this report when  looked at against the evidence of the MOTs, the distance  driven  and 
the exhaust systems  being changed  was enough  evidence as to what  was the fault, if any, 
with the exhaust.  The engineer said the smell of smoke had needed further investigation  
however it couldnt  have  been present the following month when the MOT  was performed 
as the car wouldnt have  passed. And since the exhaust systems had now been  changed  a 
couple of times it wasnt  reasonable for that inspection to now take place.
As I didnt have  sufficient  evidence that the car was faulty at the point of sale I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Neither Mr F nor Motonovo has raised anything for me to consider about  my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not changed my view. For the reasons given above I dont think theres enough evidence 
for me to say the car was faulty at the point of sale and Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9379849