K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about Harrison  Gray Limited (HGL)s failure to advise him on protecting his 
pension from Lifetime  Allowance  (LTA) charges. Hes referred  both to when  the lifetime 
allowance reduced  from £1.8m to £1.5m  in 2012, and when he accessed  the tax free cash 
from his pension plan in 2013.  Hes received tax bills from HMRC that he doesnt think he 
should have incurred.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 January 2021.  A copy  of that is 
attached with a typographical  error corrected where [shown], and forms part of this final 
decision. In summary,  I concluded that 
Fixed  Protection (FP) or Individual Protection (IP) 2014 wouldnt have avoided the tax 
charges Mr C faces, as he withdrew his tax-free cash in any event  in 2013, thus 
benefiting from  but fully using up  an LTA of £1.5m.
Mr Cs LTA issue most likely  started  earlier, when the Chancellor announced in 
October 2010 that the LTA would  be reduced  to £1.5m  from April 2012  and HGL 
failed to notice  or address this in its January 2011 fact find or advice  to switch his 
pension from Aviva to Prudential.
Preserving or even  improving the tax advantages of the recommended product was 
an inherent part of pension switching advice, in order to ensure that the advice was 
suitable under the regulators rules. HGL wasnt able to avoid considering  those 
integral issues by issuing disclaimers.
Suitable advice  would have involved recommending that Mr C applied for FP 2012. 
Irrespective of whether  his accountant  could also have advised this, Mr C was relying 
on advice from HGL.  I found no reason to conclude  that he wouldnt have followed 
that advice  given it would have  saved him hundreds  of thousands  of pounds in tax.
Ive carefully considered  all the points raised in response by both parties, but Ill concentrate 
on those that I think are key to this decision below. Mr Cs representative  said that:
-I was wrong to assume Mr C would  still have crystallised his Prudential pension in 
2013. He had no need to take tax-free cash if hed already  put protection against a 
£1.8m LTA in place,  and taking tax-free cash unnecessarily created this problem.
-HGL received about £20,000 as an initial fee and ongoing  fees of about  £2,000pa. 
The action in drawing  pension benefits  was inaccurate, unnecessary and created 
significant tax penalties. Are these fees being  included in the calculations?  
-The adviser had been evasive in acknowledging his responsibilities. Mr C was never 
made aware that his previously taken NHS pension (from 2002) would be multiplied 
by 25 and count  towards  the LTA, which was a growing  ticking time-bomb.
-Mr C confirms that at no stage did HGL advise him to apply for LTA protection. It was 
not for his accountant or pension provider to advise  it was the responsibility  of HGL 
and this should have all been recorded and Mr C fully briefed  he was not. 
-Mr Cs original accountant  died in 2016 and was engaged on terms that only 
amounted to the preparation of his annual tax return and submission to HMRC.  
-He went to a new accountant in the last three years and has had to additionally pay 
him about £5,000 to deal with all aspects of this complaint; and a further £10,000  
approx. to his new adviser. Are these costs  being taken into account?
-Compensation should be based on the full tax liability of £151,873, which would have 
been all but eliminated  if his NHS pension of £30,000pa had been valued  against 
the LTA in 2011, instead of 2013  when Mr C actually crystallised his Prudential  plan.
Ref: DRN96998202-The adviser knew about the LTA problem hed created but concealed this until 
forwarding Prudentials letter in May 2018, which caused  Mr C frustration and stress. 
Mr Cs accountant then found  it difficult to obtain  further information  from the adviser.
-The compensation shouldnt be reduced  to account for future income tax; that should 
instead be paid to HMRC as its morally  wrong for the adviser to benefit. The 
reduction for future  income tax also shouldnt be as high as 40%, as its possible for 
the beneficiaries  to carry out financial planning  and reduce their liability to 20%.
HGLs adviser made the following key comments:
-I had presumed  HGL was responsible for the loss of a £1.8m  LTA simply because 
Mr C had made a complaint. Mr C was also attempting to mislead our service.
-I was wrong to uphold  the complaint even though I had acknowledged that the 
adjudicator said financial advisers arent primarily concerned with their clients tax 
affairs, and that other  parties might also have been able to advise Mr C on the LTA.
-Why have I not requested any copies of Mr Cs communication with his accountant? 
They were duty bound to ask about his pensions  and protect these from taxation. 
-Id said that Mr C sought advice from HGL, which was a leading statement  when 
Mr C had conveniently forgotten  to contact his accountant.  And my comment  about  
oblique references  in the suitability  letter  implied that HGL was being  underhand.
-I hadnt acknowledged that Mr C was an experienced business owner with 
commercial common sense  and intelligence,  capable of making rational decisions.
-He didnt force Mr C into drawing tax-free  cash in 2013  because of a newspaper  
article. The article  prompted a cordial  discussion and Mr Cs decision to take his tax-
free cash. It also wasnt tax advice and nor were the other services HGL offered. 
-The LTA rules have  changed repeatedly since the events subject to this complaint, 
meaning that even  after the event I havent  been  able to comment  with certainty.
-The 2013 suitability  letter made clear that Prudentials key features document (which  
HGL has never  been provided with direct) may contain additional information.
-A May 2018  letter  from Prudential stating "We apologise for the mistake in our 
previous letter" shows  their administration of Mr Cs plan was lacking.
-Specific discussions about preserving the £1.8m LTA did take place but perhaps this 
could have been documented better.
-What medical evidence do I have for the shock I said Mr C suffered  on learning the 
extent of his LTA and unauthorised payment charges?
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to be impartial  and to weigh up 
the evidence presented  by both sides. I do not act for either side in this dispute.  Ive also 
reached my decision independently of the investigators previous view (and it is different to 
that view).  So Im sorry to hear that HGL considers that its culpability has been presumed 
purely by virtue of the fact a complaint  was brought. That is most certainly not the case. 
Its the relative weight  of evidence in favour of or against the complaint that determines 
whether or not it should succeed. I also dont agree that Mr C has misled this service on the 
fundamental basis of his complaint. Whilst it isnt in dispute that he retained an accountant, 
its also clear he engaged HGL for financial planning advice  his emails in 2011  in particular 
are clear  on that. So when HGL was recommending changes to Mr Cs pension,  this would 
reasonably include  advice on applying for LTA protection,  for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN96998203HGLs responsibility  versus the accountants,  Mr Cs or Prudentials
The adjudicator said that financial advisers arent  primarily concerned  with their clients tax 
affairs. This is a reference to the fact that accountants are usually engaged to address tax 
issues, and financial advisers are usually engaged to address financial planning issues.  I 
should be clear  that this doesnt mean that a financial adviser can exclude considerations of 
tax when recommending  a product   a pension  that is ostensibly used for tax mitigation. 
That would be as illogical as an accountant  not highlighting a clients  ability to contribute to a 
pension when approached to address a forthcoming  income  tax bill. I refer to COBS  2.1.2R 
that prevents  restriction of advice in this way, as highlighted in my provisional decision.
I accept HGL may be trying to point out that in the other services it offers, e.g. inheritance 
tax planning, it isnt providing tax advice in the same way an accountant might provide  that 
advice. But that would  be an artificial distinction  which is irrelevant to whether,  reasonably,  a 
client would  expect their financial  adviser  to highlight  the tax implications of the investment 
advice he is actually giving. When Mr C sought  advice from HGL on his pension in 2011 he 
was reasonably entitled to expect that HGL would explain  that he now had an opportunity  to 
protect his pension fund from the drop in the LTA from £1.8m to £1.5m.
HGL took exception to my suggestion  that it only made oblique  references in its letters to 
information on its website  about the LTA. By oblique  I simply meant  indirect  that is, I think 
HGL should have directly  advised Mr C on the LTA instead of referring him to information  
elsewhere, which diluted the direct  relevance  of that information to his situation.  
HGLs point is in any event that it did tell Mr C, verbally, about the importance of applying. I 
agree that there are notes  on its fact finds referring to the LTA at most other  points, and Ive 
taken that into account.  But on the one occasion  that it would have made a vital difference  to 
Mr Cs position to apply  for Fixed  Protection 2012, any reference to this on the fact find is 
absent. As this runs contrary to the previous  notes  made by the adviser  it doesnt provide  a 
particularly compelling  reason  to conclude it would still have been mentioned. 
The adviser also said later on that he had a feeling Mr C had applied  for protection, when in 
fact he hadnt.  So I cant safely  conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that HGL advised 
Mr C to apply for FP 2012  and I explained  in my provisional decision why, on balance, I 
considered Mr C would have followed that advice  had it been given. Its therefore fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that the entire  loss caused  by an additional £300,000 falling outside  
of Mr Cs LTA could  have  been avoided but for failings  in HGLs advice. 
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that, separately, Mr C could  allege  that his 
accountant failed  to highlight the availability  of FP 2012 to him. So it would be open  to me to 
consider making  an award that only holds  HGL partly responsible  for compensating this full 
loss; for instance if it was evident that the accountant had separately advised on (or applied 
for) LTA protection  and had somehow failed in their responsibilities. But I dont see thats the 
case here.
Mr C says he and his accountant at the time (not his current  accountant) didnt discuss  the 
LTA because the accountant  wasnt involved in his pension planning at all. I consider thats  
an appropriate division  given the extent  of HGLs involvement in Mr Cs pension affairs; and 
since there werent even  any pension contributions  or withdrawals  made after the LTA 
regime was in place,  for the accountant to take into account.
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  I dont think Mr C is at fault for not approaching his 
accountant for advice  on this matter when HGL attempted to exclude it from its advice. 
Ref: DRN96998204Firstly because he was reasonably entitled to expect that advice from HGL, and secondly 
because there was no explanation of the benefits  of him applying for FP 2012 or the cost of 
not acting. For the same  reasons, I fail to see how HGL could shift its responsibility onto the 
pension provider, when  the pension provider wasnt set up to provide advice. 
Nevertheless in response to my provisional  decision,  Mr Cs representative now considers  
that all of his tax bill could have been avoided by HGL - and not just that part in respect  of 
the additional £300,000  caught by the LTA. So Ive gone on to consider  that point.
Timing of crystallising benefits
Id like to correct a misunderstanding that HGLs actions in crystallising Mr Cs Prudential 
pension in 2013 caused tax charges  that he wouldnt otherwise have had to pay. It actually 
ensured he made full use of the £1.5m LTA applying at that time, before it reduced yet again 
to £1.25m.  And as the LTA hadnt risen  back above £1.5m by Mr Cs 75th birthday  when 
the final test against the LTA took place  he actually avoided  paying LTA charges  on a 
further £250,000 by crystallising benefits in 2013 rather than creating additional charges.
Mr Cs representative has suggested  both that he didnt need to withdraw tax-free cash in 
2013, but also that valuing  his NHS  pension in 2011 would have been more favourable to 
him. This seems to be forgetting that the only way for Mr C to value  the NHS pension  in 
2011 was to at least  take the tax-free cash from his other pension plan  as that would 
cause a benefit crystallisation  event (BCE). The NHS valuation was 25 times the amount in 
payment, which  went up each year roughly by inflation. So I believe the point Mr Cs 
representative is making is that each year Mr C delayed creating  a BCE, the more of his LTA 
was used up by his NHS pension. I understand this point, but I dont think its as simple as 
the representative suggests: there were also other factors at play.  
Originally, the LTA also increased roughly with inflation. Whilst that might not always  have 
tracked investment  growth, it would roughly have tracked the LTA value of the NHS pension.  
Following the Chancellors October  2010 announcement  of a cut in the LTA, there was no 
immediate prospect of inflationary increases  that link was only restored (on a lower  LTA) 
with effect from April 2018. But equally of concern would have been  that before April 2015 if 
Mr C had died under the age of 75 with private pension pots, only those pots which were 
uncrystallised could  be paid to the beneficiary without a tax charge  on the death benefits. 
So there were arguments for not crystallising  private pension  pots as well as crystallising 
them. And what seemed  to have tipped  the arguments in favour  by 2013 was a concern that 
the tax-free cash concession might  be removed by the government, suggesting it was better 
to take that entitlement  rather than lose it altogether.  This was largely based on press 
speculation, but I cant say the adviser concealed  the source of his information from Mr C. 
Mr C was able to make an informed choice about whether these rumours concerned him, 
and indeed whether he had a use for a tax-free cash sum at that time. 
Even though  the adviser highlighted  the less favourable  treatment on his death before  age 
75 resulting from accessing benefits, the point  Mr Cs representative made about 2011 is 
also valid here: creating  a BCE also prevented the value of his NHS pension  for LTA 
purposes increasing yet further. So on balance, I cant  fairly say the adviser made  the wrong 
judgement here  irrespective of whether Mr C had applied for FP 2012.
Calculation of compensation
Ref: DRN96998205HGL suggests  that as the LTA rules  have changed repeatedly,  Im not able to say with 
certainty what Mr C should have done  and why. But the test here is the balance of 
probabilities. I can fairly conclude on that basis that Mr C should have been advised,  based 
on what was known  about the LTA at the time,  to apply for Fixed  Protection  and would 
have followed that advice. Im also satisfied, for the reasons I gave above and in my 
provisional decision, that its fair and reasonable to require  HGL to meet all of Mr Cs 
resulting losses as calculated under the fair compensation  heading of that decision.
The fact find information  shows that Mr C and his wife have a substantial  property rental  
income, in addition to Mr Cs NHS pension (which provides spouses benefits) and Mrs Cs 
own pension. His representative  has argued  that careful tax planning would result in Mr Cs 
beneficiaries paying  only basic rate tax, but no more information  than that has been 
provided. I dont find this persuasive, given what we know  of the total assets involved. 
Even if Mrs C takes little or no income from the Prudential plan she may inherit  from Mr C 
and/or it passes to his son, this would  then in my view involve making an assumption that his 
son also leaves the majority of the funds intact  for many years, despite all the other  flexible 
options he may have.  I cant  safely conclude, and nor would it be fair to HGL to assume, that 
the only tax charges ever taken from Mr Cs pot will be at the rate of 20%.  So Im not going  
to depart from the higher  rate tax assumption.
My understanding that income tax wont be due on compensation paid for poor financial 
advice. As my award represents a loss of future drawings  from Mr Cs (or his dependants) 
pension, the Gourley  Principle1 establishes  that compensation should be reduced to account  
for the tax those  parties  would  otherwise have  paid on drawing the funds this award  
represents. Rather than being a moral question it is simply a mechanism to ensure those 
parties arent  overcompensated  in order to be fair to both parties in the dispute.
Cost of HGLs advice and representation in the complaint
Mr Cs representative argues that Mr C shouldnt have to pay for the poor advice hes 
received from HGL, and should also be reimbursed for his costs incurred in complaining.  I 
disagree with this for several reasons. Firstly, Mr C clearly  seems to have been aware of 
what he was paying HGL for its advice, and took a keen interest in his pension.  From what I 
can see was healthily engaged in discussion with the adviser about its performance and 
what funds he preferred. 
Whilst I dont think  HGLs  comments  about  Mr Cs professional success show any particular 
expertise in pensions,  I do think he was in a reasonably informed position to agree with HGL 
what he was willing to pay for its services. The HGL fees mentioned of £20,000 (plus 
ongoing charges)  are obviously substantial, although I note they are similar to the fees Mr C 
mentions hes now incurred in bringing  the complaint.  In both cases  this is likely to reflect the 
large size of the Prudential plan involved. 
The regulator doesnt set a cap on fees and Im satisfied that it was for Mr C, just as in the 
relationship with his new advisers,  to agree what he was willing to pay for the level of service 
he was then entitled to expect from HGL.  What Im trying to put right is where  Mr C didnt get 
that level of service. Mr C argues that advice on the pensions for which HGL was paid 
should have triggered better advice on the LTA position  and I agree with that. So the 
remedy to that is not to refund the fees which  Mr C would still have needed to pay to get this 
1  From British Transport Commission v Gourley (1955)
Ref: DRN96998206better advice. The remedy is to put Mr C into the position he would have been in, had he 
benefited from superior  LTA protection.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is a free alternative to court  action. So we dont expect 
consumers to need legal or other  representatives in order to bring a complaint.  That is of 
course distinct from any ongoing financial advice Mr C needs (as HGL is no longer  
regulated) and a replacement for his late accountant. 
When Mr C found out that Prudential had applied tax charges he wasnt expecting, it was 
open to him to complain to HGL himself   and if he was dissatisfied,  bring  the complaint free 
of charge to our service. We have an inquisitorial role to get to the bottom  of the matter  in 
dispute, so Mr C wouldnt have been  at a disadvantage putting  a complaint in his own words.  
It follows that Im not in a position to refund the costs Mr C has incurred by choosing to be 
represented in this complaint by his new adviser  and (if this applies) his accountant.
Distress and inconvenience
I understand Mr Cs point that he and his representatives found it difficult  establishing  from 
HGL what the position  was regarding  his LTA charges. But in making my award in the 
provisional decision for the shock Mr C suffered at finding out at finding out the extent of the 
LTA and unauthorised payment charges, I said this was in some cases many years after he 
should have been told  so I considered  this to be a global amount covering the inattention 
HGL had paid to this tax issue right up to the point of his complaint.
Mr C said in his complaint letter that he had suffered shock and dismay at unexpectedly 
finding that I am now due to pay the very considerable sum of around £32,000 to HMRC due 
to an unauthorised payment in addition to a huge LTA tax charge of £114,650 which has 
already been paid from my pension fund by the Prudential. Whilst Im not satisfied that all of 
these charges could  have  been avoided by better advice from HGL,  most would have been 
and so its understandable that Mr C would have been shocked. Im persuaded by his 
testimony and its not necessary for me to ask for medical evidence  to reach that conclusion.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and require Harrison Gray Limited  to pay him redress  as 
calculated in the fair compensation  section of the attached provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96998207Provisional decision of 8 January  2021
background
Mr C was an existing client of HGL with a Prudential pension plan valued at about £1.06m. 
The initial focus  of his complaint was on September 2013, when HGLs  adviser  sent him a 
newspaper article warning  that the tax-free cash concession could be restricted  by the 
Government, and told him:
The general  consensus is that this Government  will reduce (or even abolish) the tax-free  
lump sum available from personal pension plans. This would follow  the recent legislation, 
taking effect from 6 April 2014,  which will reduce  the annual contribution limit from 
£50,000 to 40,000 and also reduce  the accumulative lifetime  pensions allowance from 
£1.5 million to £1.25 million.
The adviser therefore advised Mr C to take the maximum available  tax free cash from his 
Prudential plan of about £260,000. Mr C then put his remaining pension funds into 
drawdown without  needing to take an income  as he had been  receiving a public sector  
pension of around £32,000pa since 2002,  as well as other rental income.  HGL took a fee 
from the pension  of 2.5% of the funds  (net of tax-free cash),  and would take 0.25%pa for 
ongoing servicing.
Mr C was about 71 years old at that time.  The application form for the drawdown plan 
contained a declaration that Mr Cs pension benefits were within the Lifetime Allowance 
(LTA)  as the transfer of these funds into drawdown counted as a Benefit  Crystallisation  
Event (BCE). Mr C signed that declaration. As a result Prudential didnt find out about  Mr Cs 
public sector pension,  so it wasnt  aware  he would already have exceeded his LTA. 
The adviser warned  Mr C that, under  the legislation in force at that time, if he died before 
age 75 then a 55% tax charge would  be applied to any residual  fund remaining. He also 
clarified that the transfers into drawdown  used up around 70% of Mr Cs lifetime allowance  of 
£1.5m. The illustration for the drawdown  plan additionally warned:
The maximum normally payable  as a tax free cash sum is 25% of the Amount Available  
for Annuity Purchase (or 25% of your available Lifetime Allowance).
In April 2017 in advance of Mr C reaching his 75th birthday, Prudential  sent HGL an 
additional information request form in order to carry out a further check  of all benefits  against 
his LTA  as reaching age 75 in a drawdown plan was a further  BCE.  It appears on this 
occasion details  of Mr Cs public sector pension were provided,  so Prudential then found  
Mr C had exceeded his LTA in 2013.
In October  2017 Prudential retrospectively recalculated the value of one of Mr Cs plan 
numbers, taking into account the £87,324 LTA charge that should  have been  paid in 2013 
(25% of the funds in excess  of the LTA). The growth in the recalculated residual  value then 
also attracted a further 25% LTA charge  of £27,326 at age 75, in accordance with the further 
BCE test applicable then. (Mr Cs second plan number also attracted a similar £37,224  
charge on its growth to age 75.) So Prudential deducted LTA charges totalling  £151,873 
from Mr Cs plans.
In addition a further £32,228  would be due from Mr C personally in early  2019 as an 
unauthorised payment  charge, for taking more  than the maximum tax-free cash  hed been  
Ref: DRN96998208entitled to. This was because tax-free  cash cannot be taken  from funds in excess  of the LTA.  
This was charged at 40% of the excess tax-free cash taken. Prudential added:
Based on the figures provided  on the LTA additional  information form when the Income
Drawdown plans started,  had we been told about [Mr Cs public sector]  pension we would 
have been able to establish  that there would have been an excess over the LTA and 
therefore a tax charge.
HMRC may raise  an assessment for late payment penalties/interest with Prudential.  In 
this event we will direct them to the customer as these have arisen through no fault of 
Prudentials.
The accountant who was preparing Mr Cs tax return asked HGL for further  information  as to 
how these charges had arisen. HGLs adviser said that he didnt know  Mr Cs tax position  
and the accountant should  speak directly to Prudential.  However  he added, I have  a feeling 
that [Mr C] had previously applied for enhanced  pension protection. (Due  to suffering his 
own health problems  at that time, the adviser  said he couldnt  recall this clearly.)
Mr C complained to HGL in August 2018  about it causing him this tax liability.  He additionally 
asked HGL why he wasnt advised to apply  for any transitional protection available against 
the higher LTA of £1.8m in 2012/13.  So that also formed  part of his complaint. 
HGL didnt uphold  his complaint as it stated, amongst  other reasons:
-It wasnt his tax adviser or authorised to complete any tax forms on his behalf.
-Nevertheless it did inform Prudential of his public  sector pension.
-The cooling off notice  confirming what initial charges were taken from the pension 
fund was sent to Mr C and not to HGL.
-The Government was responsible for introducing the LTA,  the changes  to which were 
impossible to predict. 
-Mr C would have been  informed about the LTA when his NHS pension  was taken.
-HGLs fact finds confirm it raised  this with him in 2006, 2007, 2011 and 2013,  yet he 
chose not to apply for transitional  protection.  (No further information was given about 
HGLs dealings with Mr C in 2011.)
Mr C referred  his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, pointing out that HGLs  
adviser had collated the paperwork and presented it to Prudential  in 2013   and that he was 
paying it both initial and ongoing  fees for the advice.
HGL suggested  to us that Mr C was unique amongst its clients  in not using an accountant to 
address LTA issues. It thought he had been selective in quoting  parts  of its letters  / terms of 
business, which did point  out that Levels of taxation, and bases and relief from taxation, are 
subject to change ; and those documents  references to its website which says We are also 
not liable  for our clients tax position and Please check with your normal  tax adviser 
regarding the importance of pension  protection and the Pension  Lifetime  Allowance.
HGL provided its own notes showing it gave a guideline figure of £30,000pa for Mr Cs public 
sector pension to a named individual  at Prudential. It added that it had emailed Mr C in July 
2014 offering  him a financial review, and hadnt  received a response.  It noted  that Mr C 
could have applied  for Individual Protection from the 2014 LTA reduction  from £1.5m  to 
£1.25m (IP 2014) until April 2017. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint should be upheld.  He acknowledged that 
financial advisers are not accountants primarily concerned with their clients tax affairs. 
However, when regulated  financial  advice  is provided, as was the case  for Mr C, HGL should 
Ref: DRN96998209have made  him aware that he would be exceeding his LTA by accessing his tax free cash,  
(causing the whole pot to be crystallised). And also that he would be accessing more tax-
free cash  than he was entitled to, as he had already  crystallised his public sector pension. 
As that may have meant Mr C decided  not to withdraw his tax-free cash at that point, the 
adjudicator recommended  HGL carry out a calculation to establish  whether the tax charges 
would have been less overall, had Mr C left his pension intact to be tested at a single BCE at 
age 75.
The adjudicator further concluded  that HGL should have advised Mr C to take out Fixed 
Protection 2014 (FP 2014) before the deadline of 5 April 2014  which  would require 
stopping any pension  contributions he was making   and HGL should compensate him 
taking the higher LTA afforded by FP 2014 into account. 
HGL didnt agree, in essence maintaining that it wasnt Mr Cs tax adviser and repeating a 
number of the arguments made previously. It confirmed Mr C wasnt  making ongoing 
pension contributions that hed have needed  to stop in order  to apply for FP 2014. But it said 
Mr Cs accountant or Prudential should  have  noticed  that he was facing tax bills as a result  
of the advice it gave him and unless he applied for protection.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There are a number of questions  which  
need to be addressed in order to establish  whether and to what extent HGL is liable for the 
tax charges Mr C has suffered:
1.Could  the tax charges have been avoided if HGL (or anyone else)  had advised Mr C 
to apply for FP or IP 2014 at around  the time of HGLs 2013  advice,  or failing that 
before the deadlines for those  protections (April 2014 and April 2017  respectively)?
2.If not, could the tax charges have  been avoided if HGL (or anyone else) had instead  
advised Mr C to protect his LTA at the earlier, higher  levels?
3.Given that HGL wasnt the only party that might have been able to advise Mr C, what 
is the extent of its liability?
Would FP or IP 2014  have avoided the tax charges Mr C faces?
Mr C had started taking his defined benefit (DB) pension in 2002, before the introduction  of 
the LTA was announced. So HGLs suggestion  that his public sector  scheme would have 
informed him of the LTA at the point of claiming  his benefits appears to be mistaken. There  
was also no subsequent obligation  on that scheme  to calculate the value of Mr Cs benefits 
towards the LTA.  That obligation fell on those advising on and administering his pensions  at 
the point that taking  any further benefits triggered his first BCE after April 2006.  
We know that HGL advised Mr C in September 2013, as that was the initial  focus of his 
complaint. Prudentials retrospective calculation  shows  an precise contemporaneous figure  
for Mr Cs DB pension of £31,841pa,  which is multiplied by 25 to arrive at a value for LTA 
purposes of £796,013. (I note that in its 2007 fact find, HGL refers  to a multiplication  factor  of 
only 20, which again appears  to be mistaken in terms of the test that is applied  to pre-2006  
benefits in payment.)
Ref: DRN969982010So crystallising Mr Cs Prudential pension worth £1.06m at that time would give him a 
combined value  to be tested against the LTA of £1.86m. The standard LTA at that time was 
£1.5m (due to reduce  further to £1.25m in April 2014). 
An application for either IP 2014  and FP 2014 would  have limited Mr Cs LTA to the 
protected amount, unless the standard LTA rose above that amount before his next BCE 
(and I note that there was no indication at that time of when inflationary increases to the LTA 
might resume). With IP 2014 the protected amount was the lower  of the total value of 
benefits in April 2014 and £1.5m.  Whereas  with FP 2014 Mr C could  protect a full £1.5m in 
future (irrespective of the value of benefits at that time), providing he didnt contribute  further 
to his pensions.  
Those slight differences didnt affect  Mr C, so either FP or IP 2014  would  have achieved  the 
same outcome. But neither would have protected him against  the £356,000  that was already 
in excess of the £1.5m LTA at the time of the advice. In fact, because Mr C withdrew his tax-
free cash  in 2013, thus triggering a BCE before  April 2014,  he benefited from the £1.5m  LTA 
in any event. And he wouldnt have been able to avoid a further  test against an LTA, which  
hed already exceeded, at age 75  and the resultant excess  charges. So any debate about 
whether Mr C should have applied for FP or IP 2014 is unnecessary here.
Could the tax charges have been avoided if Mr C had been advised  to protect his LTA at the 
earlier, higher levels?
Whilst Mr C has specifically referred to the £1.8m LTA which  still existed during 2011,  and I 
agree that this is the point  when  it would have made most sense to apply for protection. I say 
this as until that point Mr C had benefits  that were  close to (but unlikely to have been  over) 
the LTA, which  had always been  planned to increase from £1.5m  in 2006 to £1.8m in April 
2010. I do of course note that HGL appears to have provided Mr C with updated information  
on the LTA in 2006 and 2007, according  to the notes  on its fact finds. But we also know that 
HGL provided advice on Mr Cs personal pension in 2011 (rather than, say, on his 
occupational pension which wouldnt have been  regulated advice). 
In any case I think  the problems for Mr C most likely started when the Chancellor announced  
on 14 October 20102 that the LTA would be reduced  to £1.5m from April 2012. This 
announcement seems  to have passed  HGL by, given the following note on its January 2011 
fact find:
January 2011  fact find: still awaiting decision  from [Mr C] re A-day  and allowance  now 
£1.80 million for all pensions (excluding  State pension) for 2010/2011. [Mr C] still aware of 
potential inheritance tax liability.
This contrasts with the what HGL told him in 2013, which Ive quoted above  and suggests  
the adviser made clear that the LTA was reducing. In fact on the 2013 fact find the adviser  
noted: Pension protection (2014) period closes April 2017., which  is substantially  more 
information about what Mr C could do than was noted on the 2011 fact find.
I find it unlikely a comment  would  be made  in 2011 that the LTA was now £1.8m  if, in fact, 
the purpose of the note was to record that Mr C was warned that there  was a more  pressing 
2 https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20110406093458/http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/press_52_10.htm
And: https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20110406102604/http://www.hm-
treasury.gov.uk/press_71_10.htm
And: https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20110406090624/http://www.hm-
treasury.gov.uk/d/fst_wms_pensionstaxrelief_091210.pdf
Ref: DRN969982011need to protect  against the LTA dropping  to £1.5m.  Clearly that was the most relevant thing 
for him to know, when  draft legislation for this reduction was already published, and all but 
confirmed in the forthcoming  March  2012 budget (I would refer to the footnotes  below).
Discounting back for two years fewer  inflationary  increases  on the DB pension (at 3%pa  this 
would be a pension  of about £30,000pa in 2011)   and the correct multiplication factor of 25 
 meant  that it would have covered £750,000  of an LTA that was going to reduce to £1.5m. 
Mr Cs personal  pension  was worth £993,000  so he clearly  now had a much more 
apparent problem with his LTA. So I recently contacted  HGL and Mr C to ask for any further 
evidence of what advice  he received  from HGL at that time.
HGL responded  to me confirming that it gave advice on switching his personal pension  from 
Aviva to Prudential. It provided  a copy of the email  exchange and suitability report  for that 
advice and Ive considered it carefully.  I note that the advice chooses to refer to other 
forthcoming HMRC changes in April 2011,  including  that Mr C wont be required to draw his 
pension benefits  at age 75  and the differences in how death benefits will be taxed  from 
that date.
Those changes HGL did refer to, which were about to be brought in, had the same status as 
legislation which was about to be passed  confirming a LTA reduction  to £1.5m from April 
2012  and the availability  of protection from this that could be applied for between  April 
2011 and April 2012).  So its difficult to reconcile  this with HGLs  argument that it wasnt  
providing tax advice. (Ill consider that in more detail in the following section.)
Applying for Fixed Protection (2012), as it became  known and had been announced  as part 
of the forthcoming  legislation in December 2010  (the third footnote below), would  have been  
of real benefit to Mr C.
Fixed Protection 2012 gave protection against  any LTA charge on benefits worth  up to 
£1.8m (or the standard LTA if this subsequently increased above £1.8m). The key restriction  
here was that no further contributions could be made (there was no version of Individual  
Protection in 2012 that avoided this), but HGL has confirmed that Mr C wasnt  making  further 
contributions. So I now need to consider what is the extent of HGLs liability, given that Mr C 
hasnt applied for FP 2012.
What is the extent of HGLs liability?
From what  I can see, any failure to advise Mr C to apply for FP 2014 or IP 2014 was 
negated by the fact Mr C took benefits at that time. In fact that there  would have been little 
benefit in applying for FP or IP 2014, because  he took benefits  and used up the maximum 
LTA he could in any case have protected at that time. 
However its relevant  to note here that it was also providing tax advice which  was ancillary  to 
that investment  advice.  I say this as the main argument HGL advanced at the time for why 
Mr C should take his benefits  was a tax argument:  the risk that the Government might 
remove the tax-free cash concession. 
In 2011 HGL was also providing Mr C with investment advice on switching his pension from 
Aviva to Prudential, which  had to be suitable  in his personal circumstances under the 
regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS).  Given  that the advice is already 
exploiting the tax advantages of the pension  product, theres an inherent  requirement when 
ensuring that advice  is suitable, to consider how those tax advantages can be preserved or 
even improved as part of the advice   and to explain the pitfalls.
Ref: DRN969982012Thats shown in the way HGL seems  to have approached its advice at all other times  
giving Mr C information about such things as what the LTA was, how his DB benefits 
counted towards  the LTA, the protections available, and how his death benefits would be 
taxed. Its just that any advice or even information  on the availability of FP 2012  is strangely 
absent from HGLs  2011  advice. In my view, it should have  strongly featured  as part of 
giving suitable  advice  as it was far more  relevant  to Mr Cs situation even than the 
prospect of more promising investment  growth  following the switch.
Moreover, I dont agree  that when undertaking to give such  advice, HGL can adequately  
cover itself with disclaimers  either in letters or on its website  that it isnt giving tax advice, 
or isnt responsible  for any tax consequences.  That would undermine  the whole basis of 
giving advice on a tax-advantaged product, and I expect is the reason why  for instance  
HGL did state that it offered inheritance tax planning as a service on its website. It seems to 
me that the main difference is that certain products can often sold to mitigate inheritance tax, 
whereas there is no product that can be sold to mitigate a LTA charge   other than making 
a (free of charge) application for transitional protection. 
HGL wasnt able to use a disclaimer to exclude consideration of certain  taxes that were 
plainly relevant to the advice it was actually giving  and in fact (with the exception of its 
2011 advice) I dont  think this was the approach it actually took, or a defence  it intended to 
rely on. However  I should confirm that such an approach would run contrary to COBS 
2.1.2R:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
In my view HGL hasnt demonstrated  that it informed Mr C the LTA was reducing from £1.8m 
to £1.5m  in April 2012, or to inform him that there  was something he could do to mitigate that 
(applying for FP 2012 between April 2011  and April 2012). Indeed,  as HGL was advising on 
Mr Cs personal  pension  at that time I consider suitable advice would have involved 
recommending that he did apply for FP 2012.  Whether HGL is then liable for the 
consequences does  of course  depend on it then being reasonably  evident  that Mr C would 
then have followed its advice. 
In that regard Im aware that HGL considers Mr C is an unusual client  in that other clients  
had already applied for protection on the advice  of their accountants. But that doesnt, in my 
view, provide HGL with any grounds to justify  not giving the advice it should have given. It 
seems to me that it would have been  just as easy for an accountant  to claim that they didnt 
get involved in pensions, as it would be for a financial adviser to claim that they dont get 
involved with tax returns. The only way that HGL could guarantee that it had met its 
regulatory obligations to Mr C was to ensure that it advised him to apply for FP 2012.
Mr C was relying on advice from HGL and I find no reason  to conclude that he wouldnt  have  
also followed  advice to apply for FP 2012. It was a win-win situation: it would have cost him 
nothing and avoided  hundreds of thousands  of pounds in LTA charges. I understand HGL 
may question why Mr C therefore hadnt taken forward the option  of applying for earlier 
forms of protection  from 2006, when its fact finds suggests those were also discussed. Ive 
considered this point.  
Ref: DRN969982013Ive found that on previous occasions, HGL didnt make it as easy  for Mr C to know what  he 
should do as it perhaps could  have  done.  It pointed him in the direction of his accountant. 
Whilst I dont know  if Mr C did discuss this with his accountant, judging  by the notes on the 
fact find HGL didnt  give him a particularly pressing need to do so  for instance  there  was 
never an indication  of the potential financial cost of not acting. As Ive indicated above,  there  
might not have been much concern (until 2011) that Mr C was going to exceed  his LTA. The 
situation in 2011 was different. HGL could (and should)  already have been  able to give an 
indication of the additional tax Mr C would  have had to pay if he didnt act. 
So whilst Ive considered  what HGL has said about the separate  responsibilities of Mr Cs 
accountant, I have  to point out that this complaint is against HGL and not the accountant. 
Mr C would have had to instruct the accountant  to look into LTA protection  and, as Ive noted 
above, what HGL told him in 2011  (or before) didnt give him much reason to do so. In 2013 
it became immaterial whether Mr C applied for protection, because  he benefited from the 
£1.5m LTA in any event.
Mr C sought advice from HGL in 2011 about which he has complained,  not from the 
accountant. I dont  think  its oblique reference in its suitability letter to, You may also find it 
helpful to visit our website  at  which has been  designed to provide generic financial 
information and guidance.  or the brief notes on the fact find  have done enough to 
demonstrate it alerted  Mr C to a significant  problem.  So I consider its fair and reasonable for 
HGL alone to meet the difference  between the tax charges he paid due to a LTA of £1.5m, 
compared with £1.8m.  Ill set out how to achieve  this below.
Has Mr C lost out due to the unauthorised payment  charge?
Mr C has paid 40% tax on that part of the tax-free  cash he withdrew  from the pension  in 
excess of his LTA. I understand that will have been a shock,  having  been told that the 
amount was tax-free. I think  HGL could have mitigated this by recognising  that Mr C was 
close to exceeding  his LTA and engaging with Prudential to ensure a calculation was carried 
out before  Mr C gave  the tax-free payment instruction.
Im mindful that HGL says it informed Prudential of Mr Cs DB pension,  but the only 
declaration which was made in writing  a declaration HGL oversaw  Mr C making  was that 
he was within the LTA. I also havent  found  that HGL gave Mr C a clear understanding  that 
he was over his LTA in 2013, in order for him to know  that he was making a false  
declaration.
I havent seen  any evidence of HGL contradicting this false  declaration in writing  to 
Prudential in order for it to carry enough  weight and, even if that evidence existed, I think 
Prudential would have  been entitled  to initially go by what was written  on the application 
form. Normally  a provider will only make further enquiries if the client  declares that they are 
over the LTA (or they dont know).
The likely result of having an accurate  calculation  carried out first, was that Mr C wouldnt  
have withdrawn more  than 25% of his remaining LTA as tax-free cash. However  Im not 
persuaded that this has necessarily caused  a loss. Had that extra  money been left in the 
pension, it would have  been taxed at Mr Cs marginal rate  likely to be 40% - if he drew  it 
out as income.  Although it seems  unlikely that Mr C will exhaust his Prudential  plan during 
his lifetime and therefore this sum may form part of what is left to beneficiaries,  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest his beneficiaries wont also pay 40% tax at their marginal rate, 
given the size of the pension.
Ref: DRN969982014fair compensation
For the purposes of this calculation Ill assume that Mr C would still have crystallised his 
Prudential personal  pension in 2013.  At that point that his total benefits  would  have been  
valued at £1.86m. So Mr C would have  just exceeded the LTA of £1.8m he could have 
protected. What he failed  to protect  following  suitable advice  from HGL was the difference 
between £1.8m and £1.5m (or £300,000). The additional LTA charge hes suffered on that 
difference is 25% of £300,000 = £75,000.
This £75,000 forms the majority of the initial £87,324  LTA charge in respect of the 2013 
BCE, which  Prudential belatedly deducted  from the pension  in 2017, showing its calculations  
in its letter  of 24 January 2018. Had £75,000  of that charge not been  paid,  it would obviously 
have affected  the value  of the policy in the following ways:
1.Prudential calculated  that when Mr C crystallised benefits in September 2013, in 
respect of one of his plans £305,306 should have been designated to drawdown and 
would have grown to £414,609 by age 75. That means the growth in the plan over 
that period was (£414,609 / £305,306)  1 = 35.80%.
2.That means that if £75,000 extra  had been  in the plan,  that extra amount would have 
grown to £75,000  x 1.3580 = £101,851.The  second LTA charge Prudential  deducted  
was on the further growth in both drawdown  plans.  As Mr C would still have already 
exceeded his higher  LTA in 2013, this extra £101,851 in his policy would always still 
have suffered the second LTA charge in full. It would therefore have been reduced  to 
75% of £101,851 = £76,388.
3.As it stands, however,  Mr C seems to have benefited by his £87,324 LTA charge not 
being deducted in September 2013, but being deducted with immediate effect on 24 
January 2018  (according  to Prudentials  letter). Its presently unclear if HMRC intend 
to levy any late payment interest/penalties on Prudential in respect of this (or indeed 
charge Mr C directly).
4.If no interest/penalties are charged, the gain on the full £87,324 which  Mr C has 
enjoyed between 2013 and 2017 is £87,324 x 0.3580 = £31,262.
5.Therefore the net loss Mr C has suffered is £76,388 (from step 3) - £31,262 = 
£45,126. 
6.HGL is to calculate (by asking Prudential, or otherwise)  what percentage growth in 
Mr Cs plan there has been from the date it deducted these charges in January 2018, 
and the date of my final decision.  This percentage growth  is to be added  to the net 
loss from step 6 to arrive  at the total loss to Mr Cs drawdown fund at the date of the 
final decision. 
Ordinarily, HGL would  need to make sufficient  payment into Mr Cs pension plan for its value 
to increase by the result  of (7), after allowing for any charges and tax relief that may apply. 
However as Mr C has passed age 75, a contribution into the pension  wont be possible. So 
compensation will need to be paid in cash to Mr C. I intend to allow HGL to notionally reduce 
the total loss from step 7 by a further 40%,  to take into account the income tax Mr C or his 
beneficiaries would otherwise have paid if the benefits were  taken from the pension,  rather  
than as compensation. This is not an actual deduction of tax and therefore is not 
accountable to HMRC.  
I will revise this calculation if, before my Final  Decision, Mr C provides evidence that 
Prudential has already paid extra charges or penalties from the plan, as it wont be 
appropriate to allow for the gain from step 5 in full and so Mr Cs loss will be higher. If 
HMRC hasnt yet sought such a payment  from Prudential, my decision  will also require that:
Ref: DRN969982015-If in future any late payment interest/penalties  are taken out of Mr Cs plan in respect  
of Prudentials original  £87,324  payment, HGL must additionally compensate  Mr C 
85.9% of those  charges (the portion relating to the original £75,000 overpayment),  
and allowing for the same notional 40% tax reduction.
-If instead at any point Mr C is or has been  charged late payment interest/penalties  
directly by HMRC, again relating to Prudentials original  £87,324  payment, HGL must 
additionally reimburse Mr C in cash for 85.9%  of those  charges (with no notional  tax 
reduction).
Ive also taken into account the shock Mr C suffered at finding out the extent  of the LTA and 
unauthorised payment  charges, in some cases many years after he should have been  told. 
Had HGL not presided over the false declaration on the Prudential  application form,  I think  
Mr C would have promptly learned of the correct  amount he would pay  to the extent that 
he would  always have  had to pay some charges  and his level of shock  and the resulting 
upset would have  been reduced. 
Mr C has clearly also suffered upset on finding  he could have been advised  to apply for FP 
2012 and avoided £75,000  of LTA charges. Taking all of this into account, I consider  Mr C 
has been caused material distress and inconvenience by [HGL] s actions and I additionally  
make an award of £400 for this. 
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint and award  compensation  as set out above.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9699820