K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Nationwide Building  Societys decision to not refund transactions  he 
says he didnt make or authorise from February to May 2018.
Mr H has another complaint with this service relating to other disputed transactions,  
beginning in August and October 2017. Ill issue  a separate decision for that case,  but may 
refer to some of the circumstances here.
background
Mr H contacted Nationwide  in May 2018  as he discovered he was overdrawn and wanted  to 
know why; he thought he should have  still had money in his account. He spoke with an 
advisor and was told about the most recent  transactions on his account. There  were  three  to 
a gambling website with the final one taking him into an unarranged overdraft.
The call between Mr H and Nationwide appears  to cut out at this point. Mr H contacts 
Nationwide at the end of June and asks if theres  been any online spending since 
October 2017. Hes concerned as he believes there  should have  been  a block  on any online 
payments since 5 October 2017.
Mr H thinks such  a block was in place  following his earlier fraud claim. Hed asked  the bank to 
put one in place as he didnt carry out any online spending. Mr H went  on to tell Nationwide  
any such payments on his account since  early  October 2017 must have been carried  out by an 
unauthorised third party, given the limited way in which he used his account.
Nationwide considered whether Mr H should be responsible for the disputed transactions.  
There were ten different  online  retailers used over the period in question.  But Nationwide 
thought Mr H had authorised  all of those transactions himself and so didnt offer a refund.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Nationwides  decision.  
He maintained that hed not authorised the transactions. And he felt if Nationwide  had done 
what it should have,  and applied the block to his account, none of this would have 
happened. One of our investigators looked  into what had happened.
In the course  of his investigation  Mr H confirmed some of the spending as genuine. 
But he still disputed some gambling transactions and payments to other online merchants.
Our investigator concluded it was more likely than not Mr H authorised the transactions 
himself. He noted that the majority of the transactions still in dispute, after Mr H had 
confirmed some of the online spending was genuine, were  deposits to an online gambling 
company. He couldnt get any information from the gambling company, but did consider the 
nature of the transactions.
He said it was difficult to see why an unknown fraudster would have carried out any 
transactions for online  gambling. Thats because any winnings could only be withdrawn onto 
the same  card used  to make a deposit.  And so unless  the fraudster also had access to that 
card, such  transactions would be of no benefit to them. There would be no way of the 
fraudster obtaining  any winnings. Mr H hadnt reported any loss through the use of his 
physical card at this time and so this didnt  seem to be a possibility.
Ref: DRN94173542Our investigator also noted that the transactions did match some of Mr Hs normal account 
usage with other gambling companies. That suggested they were in fact genuine. And as 
some of the transactions were low value it further supported that it was unlikely a fraudster 
was in operation.  He thought, had that been the case, such a person would have  maximised 
their usage  as quickly as possible. But that didnt happen.
On that basis, our investigator said he thought  it was more  likely than not Mr H authorised all 
of the disputed transactions himself. He then went on to consider what  Mr H had said about 
the intended block on his account. But he didnt think what happened there changed the 
outcome.
He found that a block had been  discussed  in October 2017. That was following Mr Hs other  
fraud claim, involving transactions using the physical card as well as online gambling 
transactions. But the bank had been unable  to apply the block at the time as Mr H needed to 
get a new card before any block could be put in place. Mr H hadnt been  able to do that over 
the phone  and had to go into branch. But Mr H didnt go on to request the block again.
The investigator acknowledged that Nationwide could have been clearer that Mr H would 
need to request the block again. But he also recognised  that the bank had never  confirmed it 
was in place. And importantly Mr H had used his card for genuine  online spending. That 
meant Mr H was aware that his card wasnt blocked  for online spending and was happy to 
continue to use his card for such transactions. The investigator said,  if unhappy, Mr H could 
have gone back  to Nationwide to make  the request again if he wanted to. As Mr H didnt do 
so our investigator didnt  think  Nationwide needed  to do anything  more.
Mr H disagreed and so the case has been  referred to me for a final decision. Mr Hs main 
disagreement was that Nationwide should  have applied the block to his account in October  2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
the disputed transactions
Nationwide can normally only hold Mr H responsible for transactions  on his account that hes 
authorised. The relevant  rules are set out in the Payment Service Regulations 2017.  Mr H 
has said he didnt authorise  the spending here and so I need to consider whether Nationwide 
has acted fairly and reasonably in denying a refund.  Im making a finding on whether I think  
Mr H more likely than not authorised the transactions himself.
Ive considered the available evidence and have based my findings  on what I believe is, on 
balance, more likely than not to have happened. That is to say, whether I believe its more likely 
than not Mr H made the disputed transactions himself or someone else did, without his authority.
I can see Mr H first contacts the bank about this issue May 2018  when  his account goes 
overdrawn. He wasnt expecting that to happen.  But he doesnt  raise a dispute  at the time. 
He doesnt get back in touch with the bank  until the following  month. Im unclear as to why 
that is but it seems  unusual. Id expect him to have been reviewing his account  at that stage, 
having realised  something  was wrong.  Such a review would have revealed all of the 
disputed spending.  But that doesnt  appear to have  happened  and a dispute wasnt raised  
until some  time later.
Ref: DRN94173543I also find it strange that Mr H at first seemed to dispute all online  spending on his account. 
But when questioned further  about  the activity  hes said some of the merchants involved 
were genuinely  used by him. And some  of the genuine online  spending  is similar to whats  
been disputed. It would be unusual  for an unknown fraudster to replicate the genuine 
spending of his or her victim.
I also note the claim is very similar  to Mr Hs earlier fraud claim where he disputed  spending 
with a different  online gambling company. This would mean a fraudster had somehow obtained 
two lots of card details  from Mr H and carried out a near identical fraud. All whilst Mr H had 
genuinely spent  with the same type of merchant in-between reported instances of fraud.  
Im mindful too that Mr H has at different times said: 
he doesnt use his card online and then has confirmed  such  spending as genuine; 
and
he gambles but not online but has later confirmed online gambling transactions  
as genuine.
And so theres  unexplained inconsistency in Mr Hs version of events.  And throughout all of this  
and Mr Hs other complaint  hes offered  no explanation for how someone else might  have been 
able to use his card without him knowing. I accept  a genuine victim of fraud may not always know 
how theyve come to be in the position theyre  in. But the lack of detail here  including  Mr H 
being unable  to say where he was living at the time  presents a significant difficulty in 
establishing an alternative scenario other  than Mr H carrying  out the transactions  himself.
Ive taken all these  considerations  into account and I think, when combined, they point to it 
being more likely than not that Mr H authorised the transactions himself. I wont then tell 
Nationwide to refund them.
blocking the account
I completely accept that Mr H did discuss a block on his account with Nationwide in 
October 2017. But it was clearly explained to Mr H that such  a block  couldnt be applied until 
the new card was issued.  And that wasnt possible until Mr H had visited a branch.
I agree  Nationwide could have been  clearer about  what Mr H needed to do next. It could 
have made  it more explicit that hed need  to follow  up on his request for a block to be applied 
to online  spending.  But thats not the end of the story and it doesnt mean Nationwide  should  
now refund  any online  transactions.
Mr H was clearly  aware the block hed requested  hadnt been put in place. We know  this to 
be true as he was successfully carrying  out undisputed online spending  himself.  So he must 
have known that his card details could still be used online. 
Mr H didnt go back to the bank to request the block be put in place. He seemed to be happy 
to be able to continue using his card for online spending. If he wasnt happy for that to 
happen then I believe he should have spoken  to Nationwide about  it. 
Ref: DRN94173544Its true Nationwide could  have  done more here. But its also true that Mr H could have done 
more to make sure the block  he wanted  was put in place. As he didnt take any action hes 
not looked to prevent any possible loss. Im not then directing Nationwide to compensate  
Mr H for any loss he believes  hes incurred  as a result.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.  
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9417354