K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint concerns  the failure  by Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to assess a claim he had made under his protection policy for total and permanent 
disability (TPD) benefit. 
Mr L complains  that L&G has now unfairly cancelled his policy  rather  than pay out. He also 
says L&G has behaved unfairly in the manner and time it has taken  to deal with the claim.     
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  dated  29 April 2019.  A copy  of that decision is 
attached. It forms part of my final determination  of this complaint.  
L&G accepted my provisional findings.  It agreed  to reinstate Mr Ls policy and make a 
payment to him for the trouble and upset hed been  caused. It said it would consider any 
fresh medical information as a new claim, but noted I had provisionally agreed it was fair to 
refuse the claim again in 2018.  
Mr L didnt confirm if he accepted or rejected the decision. He did note,  however,  that he was 
pleased with the provisional decision in terms of it being unbiased. Mr L has made a number 
of further submissions, principally relating to how L&G ought to put this matter  right.  In 
summary, he said:
the foraminal  block procedure, raised  by Dr R in his letter of February 2018 is the 
same as cortisone  injections;
Mr L has had cortisone injections four or five times without success;
to ask him to undergo those procedures  again  given they have limited prospects is 
unfair;
it is also against his particular religious and/or belief system to do so;
he feels that in the previous complaint he was ignored and L&G did not respond to 
the complaint  within the eight weeks as it should have done;
he feels I ought to obtain the call recording from the claims handler that cancelled  his 
policy as she was entirely dismissive of his disability;
he is having to undergo counselling because of L&Gs attempts to make untrue  and 
defamatory statements  about  him;
relevant laws and regulations should be changed to prevent TPD being included on 
such policies, as it is an impossible claim to meet;
he wants to reach  a differing settlement with L&G  he believes the fair financial 
outcome here is for it to pay his retraining costs of approximately  £15,000 (Mr L 
supplied a breakdown of the costs for retraining in a different industry);
he is unsure if he could keep the policy going  forward because of the detrimental  
effects the stress of dealing with L&G has on his health;
he feels the Equality  Act 2010  applies here;
therefore any compensation paid to him ought  to be reflected in the same way as 
damages under that act would be awarded in a tribunal or court  that being Vento 
bands awarded for injury to feelings,  ranging in three tiers and between £900  and 
£44,000.  
Ref: DRN97760582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having looked at the further comments  
supplied by Mr T, my view remains the same as my provisional decision. 
I know Mr L says the policy term applying to his claim is unfair, but the wording is also 
contained within industry Codes of Practice produced  by the Association  of British Insurers 
for these  types of protection  policies. Some policyholders will meet the definition of being  
totally and permanently disabled, though  it may be less likely to develop  such a serious  state 
of disability in the absence of meeting any other  listed critical illness. Were  not the regulator 
of the industry   thats the job of the FCA.  As I said in my previous findings, its Mr Ls 
particular circumstances  that must be applied to the TPD wording in his policy. My role is to 
determine if it fairly applied those terms against the medical evidence  when refusing the 
claim. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr T may well have undergone cortisone injections akin to the 
foraminal block procedure, that doesnt alter my view that L&G acted fairly in refusing the 
claim. I believe  it would be helpful to reiterate  a paragraph from my provisional findings:
Whether Mr L attempts any of these  outstanding  treatment options (noting  they may 
have limited prospects)  is a matter for him. But whilst there are possible options 
which may allow him to carry on his job in some capacity, coupled with his ability  to 
attempt to work through the pain he feels, I agree with L&G that this policy  definition  
hasnt been met. Mr L says his doctors have  confirmed  TPD. But I have not seen 
that; there  is a difference from being  advised to cease working and being told that a 
doctor considers  a person  to be totally and permanently disabled. Notably, none of 
the medical evidence Ive seen confirms Mr L meets the requirement of L&Gs policy  
definition.
I remain of that view. I realise  Mr L now says that some treatment  options  may be contrary to 
his religious and spiritual  beliefs.  Whether  he undergoes any treatment option  is, as I have 
said previously, a matter  for Mr L. Nonetheless,  L&Gs duty to Mr L is to pay a claim where 
the policy terms have  been met, based on evidence. 
Though I wouldnt reasonably expect an insurer to require a policyholder  to undertake  a 
treatment option  if it was unreasonable to do so  such as it if was unavailable under public 
health care or inherently risky- Ive not seen that suggested by Dr R. He says he suspects  
the options may not work,  but he cannot  be sure about that. It appears  Mr L has outstanding 
treatment options  open to him. 
If Mr L believes he has in fact exhausted  all reasonable  treatment options available to him 
regarding his shoulder, then he may want to supply a copy of this complete decision to Dr R 
for his further comments  at which time a new claim could be pursued with L&G. But, Mr L 
would require medical evidence to support that he is unable to do the material and 
substantial duties of his hairdresser occupation  ever again. L&G could consider sending Mr 
L for a further  independent medical examination  but it would be prompted to do so in light 
of a change to the findings given by the IME in 2017. 
I realise Mr L remains unhappy with what L&G has said to him when refusing the first 
complaint and during the calls to decline the claim and void the policy.  Ive discussed both of 
these points in my provisional findings  noting  how I cannot  revisit  the first complaint. And I 
Ref: DRN97760583have disagreed with L&G assessment of Mr Ls actions where  it said it was entitled  to void 
his cover.  I dont believe there is anything else to add to those comments. 
The remaining  points Mr L makes are about  redress- by that I mean the compensation he 
feels is appropriate for the resolution  of this complaint.  
Our rules (set out by the Financial Conduct  Authority under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000) determine the types  of awards  that can be made by an ombudsman. 
These include financial loss caused  by the actions or inaction of the business. The rules 
allow for non-financial loss including distress, inconvenience, pain, suffering and damage to 
reputation. They also permit an ombudsman to make a direction  that is, to ask a business  
to take such steps  in relation to the complainant as I may consider just and appropriate
My proposed  redress of reinstatement of the policy places Mr L in the position he would 
have been in but for the action L&G took in cancelling the cover.  Since I believe L&G didnt 
reach a reasonable conclusion in determining it was allowed to end the policy,  I proposed 
that resolution without  asking  Mr L to repay  any missing premiums (which can often be the 
case). 
I also put forward my view that an award  of £500  should be paid for the upset caused to Mr 
L. That was because  it had left him in a position without insurance, and that should not have 
happened. The awards we make are not intended  to penalise businesses.  Our website has 
guidance on these  types of awards if Mr L wished to review  it  and £500 falls within the 
substantial award  bracket. 
I remain of the view that the proposed  award  is appropriate for the upset caused to Mr L. Im 
not persuaded that L&Gs conclusions caused  reputational damage or suffering to Mr L such  
that I should make a further award. Mr L was seen on surveillance footage performing tasks 
which seemingly contrasted to the evidence given  to the IME immediately prior to the 
recordings. L&G should not have  viewed this in isolation and used it as a means to void the 
cover, but it was not unreasonable to question  the nature  of Mr Ls disability when assessing 
if he could perform the material and substantial duties of his own occupation. This was, after 
all, what the policy wording required for a valid claim payment.   
It is worth noting that I dont agree  L&G should be liable for Mr Ls retraining costs. I realise 
this is a really difficult time for him, and that he has understandably  sought  to work in an 
entirely different  profession, one which does not aggravate his shoulder problems. However, 
that has happened because Mr L sustained an injury  to his shoulder  not because  of 
something L&G has or hasnt done.  It does not follow that it ought  to be liable for the costs  
associated with Mr Ls career  change, since it has not caused that requirement. 
This service is not a tribunal or court. The awards  for injury to feelings that Mr L has sent in 
response to my provisional  decisions apply primarily in employment tribunals (and some 
wider courts) for dealing  with breaches of the Equality Act 2010.  That is not a matter  I can 
consider here or make an award on  this complaint is about the refusal of Mr Ls claim and 
the cancellation of his cover. While I can consider whether L&Gs  actions are fair and 
reasonable or not (including discriminatory ones, if that applied),  awards  under  the Equality 
Act 2010 do not fall within my jurisdiction.  
I realise that continuing  with the cover  and thinking about making another  claim is something 
which causes Mr L particular stress. If he does pursue a claim,  then he may want  to consider 
Ref: DRN97760584using a friend or family  member to assist him or to point out any reasonable adjustments  that 
L&G could make in order to avoid exacerbating any condition he may have.  
My proposed  resolution is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr L isnt obliged to 
accept my decision  but if he wants his policy  to continue, hell need  to do so within  the 
timescales set out below.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Though  Legal  and General  Assurance  Society  Limited did 
fairly refuse Mr Ls claim  for total and permanent disability, it shouldnt have cancelled  his 
policy on the grounds of dishonest  behaviour. 
I direct  that the policy be reinstated.  Should  Mr L accept my decision, L&G must restart  the 
policy within  14 days of notification of the acceptance. It must also pay Mr L £500 to reflect  
the upset he has been caused, particularly having  been without insurance  at a time where  
he couldnt likely obtain it on the same terms elsewhere.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97760585copy  of provisional decision 
complaint
Mr Ls complaint concerns the failure by Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) to 
assess a claim  he had made under his protection policy  for total and permanent disability  (TPD) 
benefit. 
Mr L complains  that L&G has now unfairly cancelled his policy rather than pay out. He also says L&G 
has behaved  unfairly in the manner  and time it has taken to deal with the claim.     
background
Mr L took out a Family and Personal Income Plan in October  2012,  for a 15-year term. It included 
critical illness benefit, payable as a monthly income or commuted into a lump sum payment.  
In June 2015,  Mr L made a critical illness  claim.  This was because of a shoulder  injury hed suffered 
in 2012, which had become progressively worse. The claim was for TPD,  which  was one of the listed 
conditions under  the list of critical illnesses. To satisfy a claim the policy requires that the policyholder  
is indefinitely unable to complete the duties of her or her own occupation, because  of illness or injury.   
L&G initially refused to consider a claim as it believed Mr L may have misrepresented  his position. It 
said that if it had known accurate medical information about a shoulder  injury from the outset in 2012, 
it would have  applied  an exclusion for TPD. 
However, L&G retracted that decision when  it realised Mr Ls medical records showed that the injury 
had taken place after the policy started.  It therefore revisited Mr Ls claim, but refused to pay it on the 
grounds Mr Ls circumstances didnt meet the policy  definition.  
Mr L complained  to our service,  where  one of our investigators  thought the complaint couldnt 
succeed unless Mr L showed he had stopped  working  in which case a claim should be paid.   
Mr L asked  for an ombudsman  to consider the complaint.  I issued a final decision to the parties  dated 
31 August 2017. In that decision, I also believed the complaint couldnt  succeed  but for differing  
reasons. In summary, I said Mr L was still working in his occupation, albeit with very restricted  hours 
and only because of severe financial pressure to do so. Nonetheless, it could not be said that the 
policy definition (requiring him to be totally unable  to do his own occupation ever again) was met. 
In my decision, I also noted how L&G had agreed to seek fresh  medical evidence  and reassess Mr Ls 
claim, given the passage of time from when  he first lodged it in 2015.  
Mr L informed L&G that he had ceased  work as a hairdresser, and hed closed  down his business 
with effect at the end of the 2016/17  financial year.    
L&G referred Mr L to an independent medical examiner (IME) in October  2017.  It did so because  it 
felt the evidence  it had sought from Mr Ls doctors wasnt sufficient to determine  if the TPD definition 
had been met. Specifically, though Mr Ls GP had confirmed Mr L couldnt return to work as a 
hairdresser, this conflicted with evidence obtained from Mr Ls treating consultant.   
In February 2018, L&G wrote to Mr L to reject his claim. It said it did not accept  that Mr L was disabled 
such that he would no longer  be able to carry out the material and substantial  duties  of his occupation 
ever again. It explained that being able to do the job in some  reduced capacity  would not be sufficient 
to meet the definition.  
Further, L&G said that it had obtained incontrovertible evidence that Mr L had still been working as a 
hairdresser, despite telling L&G that he would give up work  altogether by May 2017 at the latest. It 
had obtained surveillance footage of Mr L travelling  and unloading mobile hairdressing  equipment. 
Ref: DRN97760586L&G also felt that Mr L had misrepresented  the nature of his shoulder injury  as he was also observed  
using his right hand and freely moving his arm above his head. Because  of this, it took the view that 
Mr L had dishonestly  pursued a claim. L&G said it had taken legal advice, and it was entitled to cancel 
Mr Ls policy  on that basis.   
Mr L complained.  He said, in summary:
 he had been  promised the claims process would be dealt  with quickly yet it still took almost a 
year from when  he stopped work  to the decision  of 27 February  2018;
 it isnt fair for him to have to be financially  destitute to satisfy a claim;
 after closing his business in April 2017 he had no income for seven months;
 despite his ongoing  pain he undertook some work in October  2017  around the time he was 
subject to surveillance;
 he was trying  to turn his life around since he had never been out of work before and has sole 
care for a dependent child;
 he found it very challenging  to make ends meet, whilst trying to find suitable work and funding 
for retraining so on this basis he tried returning  to do a few odd clients in late 2017;
 he thought he could  do this until he had some additional income from renting out a spare 
room;
 he did not otherwise  return  to his occupation;
 he is a disabled person for the purposes of the Equality Act 2010;
 he is unemployable  to work in a hair salon and has evidenced as such;
 he would  need  several hours rest between jobs which simply  isnt possible, nor can he 
complete many services that clients require;
 he is unable  to complete the material and substantial duties of his own occupation  so he 
meets the policy  definition; 
 and if this isnt the case, the policy  must have been mis-sold. 
L&G rejected the complaint. It explained  it hadnt  unreasonably  delayed the claim  at any time.  Further,  
it said it was reasonable to conclude Mr L was freely  able to move his affected  arm without 
impairment, as he was not observed in any apparent pain when making these movements during the 
surveillance footage. It remained of the view that Mr L had exaggerated  his condition to the point that 
he had given  misleading information. So, it was fair to elect  to cancel the policy.  
As he remained unhappy with the outcome, Mr L brought a fresh  complaint to this service. It was 
considered by a different  investigator.     
She did not believe the complaint could succeed.  She said there hadnt been enough clear  evidence  
to satisfy a TPD claim  given the content of the medical  evidence and surveillance footage.  And 
because of the conflicting nature of the footage, she said L&G was fairly entitled to cancel  the policy if 
it wished to.   
Mr L disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He supplied several further 
detailed replies to the investigator. In summary,  these said:
 the outcome  from L&G is unfair  he remains  disabled and in a lot of pain;
 the fact that L&G has taken so long to process the claim seems to have been  ignored;
 there is no logic in the findings that he intended to deceive  L&G  he has had to give up a job 
he loved;
 if he was lying or exaggerating  his condition,  he wouldnt have undergone many different 
medical routes to try to resolve  his condition;
 he has had to give up work to satisfy a claim  without having any income  to pay bills;
 L&G then used his attempts to keep himself solvent as a reason to accuse  him of fraudulent 
behaviour;
 L&G has failed him at a time when he needed  to rely on his insurance;
 the policy  is set up in a way that it is designed  to ensure a claim  cannot  be valid;
Ref: DRN97760587 even  his doctors agreed that short of losing a limb, the policy definition would  be impossible to 
meet;
 given his work was on a self-employed basis, nobody with outgoings could afford to be 
without income  for several years;
 he is unsure  if any consideration was given  to the medical evidence  obtained  when he first 
made his claim in 2015;
 the investigator failed to address the original  complaint regarding the delays on the part of 
L&G;
 L&G has discriminated against him because of the way it has misconstrued  his medical 
circumstances;
 he is a single parent  and all of his savings  have been exhausted because  he stopped working 
from January 2017  to October 2017;
 he should not be penalised for having to push through pain barriers in order to avoid  
becoming homeless;
 the investigation  over two days showed him working  but the other one did not  similarly if it 
had investigated him at any time between January and October 2017 it would  not have seen 
him working either;
 neither L&G nor the ombudsman service appreciates just how long this matter has taken, and 
throughout this time he is in a position without income;
 the investigators view disregards the findings of his attending medical professionals;
 every specialist  he attended told him to stop working as a hairdresser;
 he does not understand how a claim  can be refused  if his specialists tell him that he totally  
and permanently disabled;
 he told L&G after the previous decision  in 2017 that if he gave up working there would be a 
risk that he would  be forced to resume working  in pain so as to ensure he and his son were 
not made homeless.   
L&G didnt have any further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I have reached different findings to our investigator. 
Subject to any comments I receive from either party,  I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint in 
part.     
This decision will not revisit any matters  complained  of or dealt with in my previous final decision 
dated 31 August 2017. I already made separate findings in that decision   specifically that L&G was 
not unreasonable in refusing  the claim since Mr L was still working at that time.  
What this decision will address is: 
1) if L&G behaved  fairly in respect  of the claim  that being the way it dealt with the claim and 
its decision to reject  it in February 2018; and 
2) whether  it was fair for L&G to terminate  the policy.   
Mr L has suggested  he feels that his policy was mis-sold. I cant address that here because  L&G is 
the insurer,  not the business  that sold him the policy.  Any concerns  Mr L has (if they persist) ought to 
be directed to the business  that undertook the sale.  
was L&G fair to refuse the claim, and did it behave reasonably in doing so? 
In his complaint  form, Mr L has said that one of the reasons  that L&G has been unfair  is its failure to 
consider government guidelines for when a person is disabled or incapable of a specified  task. To 
support this, he has supplied us a Work Capability Assessment handbook, along with his comments  
about applying the guidelines. 
Ref: DRN97760588While I appreciate that his medical circumstances  are the same  for both assessments, the information  
Mr L has supplied does not apply to his critical illness policy. The definitions  are notably different. Just 
because a claimant meets  an assessment  for work capability for the purpose of state benefits does 
not automatically mean he or she will be totally and permanently disabled for the purposes of 
satisfying a critical illness policy definition  or vice versa  theyre different measures.  
Similarly, I appreciate Mr L has submitted how he is disabled for the relevant purposes of the Equality  
Act 2010. However, that definition  again  varies markedly  from the policy  wording  in this case, 
setting out a twelve-month requirement  of symptoms. I accept that Mr L (and his GP) have confirmed 
he is disabled for the purposes of the Equality  Act. 
Still, L&G is entitled  to apply Mr Ls specific policy terms to his claim. Its for me to decide if it was fair 
to conclude no claim  was payable  in February 2018 by looking at all of the evidence alongside  those  
terms. The policy definition  says:
Total and permanent disability - unable  to do your own occupation  ever again
Loss of the physical  or mental ability through an illness  or injury to the extent that the life 
assured is unable  to do the material and substantial duties of their own occupation ever 
again. The material and substantial duties are those that are normally  required for, and/or 
form a significant and integral part of, the performance of the life assureds own occupation  
that cannot  be omitted or modified.
Own occupation means your trade, profession or type of work you do for profit or pay. It is not 
a specific job with any particular employer and is irrespective of location  and availability.
The relevant specialists must reasonably expect that the disability will last throughout  life with 
no prospect of improvement,  irrespective of when  the cover ends  or the life assured expects  
to retire.
Its helpful  here for me to reiterate some  wording from my previous  final decision of 31 August 2017.  
In that decision, I said:
L&G is correct to say that a person stopping  their job doesnt automatically  mean  a claim can 
be made. Thats because a policyholder may cease  work  for disability reasons, but not be 
totally and permanently disabled; that depends  on the facts and the policy wording.  Mr Ls 
circumstances wont meet a valid claim  unless  hes totally unable to work as a hairdresser  
again  so up to now, that hasnt been the case.  
Mr L says he drastically  reduced his number of clients and the services he could  perform for those 
clients, until he stopped working  altogether.  He had already  done this by the time the decision was 
issued by this service. Mr L says he did not work at all from January  2017 to October  2017.  
Correspondence from HMRC regarding  his self-employed  status shows that HMRC updated  its 
records to show that Mr L was no longer self-employed as a hairdresser  from 31 March 2017. His GP 
also provided  a letter to L&G on 31 March 2017  to confirm that he was imminently due to end work 
but certainly no later than by the end of May.   
L&G arranged Mr Ls IME visit by October 2017, shortly  after my final decision on the previous 
complaint. I know Mr L says L&G has taken an unreasonable amount of time to action his claim, but I 
dont agree with that. Up to a few months earlier, it was clear no claim could be considered  when Mr L 
continued to work  and once he had told them hed stopped working,  it did actively pursue the claim 
by seeking medical evidence from both his treating doctors and by sending him to an IME. 
I know Mr L feels strongly that the surveillance of him was unfair, but it was within  L&Gs remit  to seek  
such evidence. And having done so, neither party disputes that on one of the two periods of 
surveillance, Mr L was recorded visiting premises and unloading and reloading equipment  required to 
undertake hairdressing. 
Ref: DRN97760589Mr L has explained the desperate financial  position he is in  and that it is the risk of losing his home  
which pushed him to try to work through the pain he suffers contrary to him having  closed his 
business. I know that must be difficult for him because he was self-employed and now has lost his 
income. I can see that several attending medical  professionals have told him to stop hairdressing, 
because working with his arms at 90 degrees in flexion  and abduction particularly aggravates his 
symptoms.  
However, taking all of the evidence into account, I believe  L&G was reasonable  in its refusal  of the 
claim. Firstly,  the observations made by the IME conflict from the surveillance  regarding Mr Ls ability 
to move his affected right arm to his neck  the footage shows him doing this. Though  I accept the 
surveillance does not evidence the pain Mr L feels, he is seen to have a greater range  of mobility than 
was suggested when he met the IME. 
Secondly, Mr L has again been able to undertake some of the duties of his employment  even 
though he says he has stopped again now. Finally, the fresh medical evidence sought  in 2018 does 
suggest there  could be options to reduce  the pain Mr L suffers, though it is suspected it may not 
resolve matters. The IME also believed Mr L could regain  function with the passage of time and 
further investigation.   
It seems to me that the correspondence  from Mr Ls attending  surgeon, Dr R, of 20 February 2018 
best summarises his position. In his letter, he says that Mr L could consider seeing a differing spinal 
surgeon regarding a foraminal block procedure  to reduce pain. He notes  how shoulder surgery could 
uncover an intra-substance  tear, but as this was not his primary symptom  surgery would put Mr L 
through a lot for questionable gain. He also noted how given Mr L struggles  with use of his arm at 
shoulder height and above, he hopes that Mr Ls shoulder  pain would improve if he changed career.  
He goes on to note:
Obviously, presently I can say that his problems are disabling enough to prevent him from 
fulfilling his previous career as a hairdresser, and a change of career, if he is not going to 
undergo surgery,  is very sensible.  I cannot  say whether  the surgery on the shoulder/or the 
foraminal blocks would improve matters for him  my suspicion  is that they would not, and 
therefore a change of career would be suitable for him.
Whether Mr L attempts any of these outstanding treatment options (noting they may have limited 
prospects) is a matter  for him. But whilst there are possible options which  may allow him to carry on 
his job in some capacity,  coupled with his ability  to attempt to work through the pain he feels, I agree  
with L&G that this policy  definition  hasnt been met. Mr L says his doctors have  confirmed TPD.  But I 
have not seen  that; there is a difference from being advised to cease working and being told that a 
doctor considers a person to be totally and permanently  disabled. Notably, none of the medical  
evidence Ive seen confirms  Mr L meets  the requirement of L&Gs policy definition.  
As I said in my quote from my previous decision, a policyholder may cease work for disability  reasons, 
but not be totally  and permanently  disabled for the purposes of meeting  the policy  definition. They are 
different measures, and though I accept Mr Ls shoulder  pain is disabling for him I do not believe all of 
the evidence supports he can never return to his job without modifications  it seems that Mr L can 
undertake hairdressing, albeit  in a considerably reduced capacity such as on the limited occasions he 
is seen doing so on a mobile basis.
But even if it is the case Mr L cannot undertake  any of the motions  required  to cut or style hair as he 
previously did on a self-employed basis, he does have  some limited treatment options to consider  
particularly the undergoing of spinal blocks to relieve  pain. 
I think  Mr L has some  confusion  as to the purpose of this policy. It isnt merely enough  to satisfy a 
claim by having a defined period off through illness or injury  this is not an income protection policy  
where a claim would automatically be paid after a minimum period  off work through  sickness,  
accident, or injury. 
Ref: DRN977605810This is a type of critical illness claim, where the benefit  is paid monthly  (although the policy terms also 
allow it to be commuted  as a lump sum). The policy offers  cover for a number of listed severe  
illnesses, including a person becoming  totally  and permanently disabled. That is a very high bar to 
meet the definition  because such policies provide cover for the most  serious instances of illnesses, 
events or circumstances.  For the reasons set out above, I dont believe the evidence to date shows 
he meets the policy definition of TPD.  
was it fair for L&G to cancel the policy  altogether?
L&G relies on the information it obtained from surveillance of Mr T in October and November  2017 to 
void the policy.  It says how:
Hairdressing requires the elevation of the shoulders and the movements around three key 
joints - the glenohumeral, acromioclavicular and the sternocleido joints. These move to 
accommodate the elevation of the upper limb in order to cut hair. Cutting hair of course is a 
lightweight task. Turning to lifting  a box the same three joints are manipulated in order to lift a 
box and carry. When we carry, we naturally elevate the shoulders and the joints move to 
address this. If it is seen that a box can be carried  - irrespective of the weight  inside it, as this 
then calibrates reflective to the weight of a pair of scissors, then the precise  movements seen 
to occur objectively  are in direct conflict with the claimants reported function. The conflict  is 
not explainable medically. It raises the legitimate question of exaggeration of symptoms.
The conflict is one action from the IME report where Mr L reports being  unable to reach  his right hand 
behind his neck. He does make this movement on occasion in the surveillance footage.  
In its claim refusal, L&G says, in our opinion  you have  exaggerated  your condition  to the point where 
we have been  mis-led.  This is why we have elected to cancel your cover and taken as a whole the 
evidence is such that were driven  to the conclusion  that youve deliberately sought to mislead us, and 
that in short your claim has been dishonestly  pursued.
I disagree. I dont accept  that the surveillance is so contradictory  from the complete medical evidence  
such that L&G drew  a reasonable conclusion  that it could cancel Mr Ls policy altogether. 
Surveillance is only one means  of observing a person.  It does not provide  any objective measure of 
how much  pain that person  may feel or any difficulty he or she may experience when performing a 
particular task. I would not expect to see an insurer use such evidence in isolation to void a policy. 
Nor would I expect it to place weight on evidence limited  to a constrained period.  And that is the case 
here. Just because  physical limitations on his movement was not identified by L&G in a limited period 
of surveillance footage,  doesnt mean Mr L is not suffering with pain or the other various symptoms 
observed by his doctors and the IME. Nor does it mean that all of the other extensive medical 
evidence from his surgeons  is irrelevant.  
I have watched the surveillance supplied  by L&G.  I do not accept that the evidence on the footage is 
sufficient for L&G to conclude Mr L has deliberately sought to mislead it. That Mr L can at times lift a 
box, remove  an item of clothing, or raise his arm above 90 degrees may mean  that he could (not 
withstanding any pain he has) hold scissors or maintain a steady  position required to cut or style hair 
on occasion. But it is not of itself, reason  to discount  the many years of medical  treatment Mr L has 
undergone for his shoulder injury, nor does  it determine that he has misled all of his attending medical 
professionals about the nature of his condition. They all accept he is disabled by the pain he suffers  
and he has been expressly advised to change career  even if that disability doesnt amount to total 
and permanent  disability, it is not a fair response to void this policy  altogether.  
Im therefore  currently  minded to issue a decision directing L&G to reinstate Mr Ls policy, without any 
requirement on Mr L to repay missing premiums  as it was not reasonable to cancel the cover on the 
grounds of the surveillance footage. I also consider L&G ought  to pay Mr L £500 for the upset he has 
been caused  by the loss of the cover  he is not able to obtain any insurance  elsewhere, and this 
Ref: DRN977605811policy provided cover  for a number of listed critical  illnesses for another  eight years,  providing Mr L 
met the policy premiums.   
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this decision in part. Whilst I believe Legal  and General Assurance 
Society Limited did fairly refuse Mr Ls claim for total and permanent disability, it shouldnt have 
cancelled his policy on the grounds  of dishonest behaviour. I believe that policy  ought to be 
reinstated.   
I now invite  the parties to let me have  in writing  any further submissions  they may wish to make 
before 13 May 2019.   
  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9776058