K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (Blue  Motor) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in February 2019. Within  the first few days 
he experienced issues with the suspension system leaking. The car was returned  to the 
dealer for repair but following this further  issues arose. 
Although Mr S car was repaired a few days  after being returned it broke down. The car was 
recovered and Mr S told that the brake had seized. A fault reoccurred a week  later and the 
car was again returned to the dealer.  Mr S was provided with a courtesy car for the week 
while his car was being repaired but he says the courtesy car was faulty. 
In April 2019, Mr S complained to Blue Motor Finance. He was told the car had been 
checked and some parts replaced  and that the exhaust system was faulty. In May 2019, 
Mr S reported further faults, and was told that a diagnostic check was needed  to establish if 
the faults were  the liability of Blue Motor. At this point Mr S decided to trade  in the car for a 
replacement. He was provided with a settlement quote of £4,843.71 which  he paid. Mr S 
says that he paid a total of £654.06 in repairs costs, of which only £120  was refunded to him. 
He wants all repair costs refunded along with the deposit he paid, plus compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience he has been  caused.
On 13 May 2019, Blue Motor issued its final response letter, upholding Mr S' complaint and 
saying that repairs  had been  accepted and been carried  out. No further  redress was offered 
at this time.
Our adjudicator noted that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), a customer is able 
to reject a car if it develops faults  within the first 30 days  of purchase.  They said Mr S car 
experienced faults within the first 30 days and that repairs didnt appear to resolve these. 
Further faults arose and again repairs didnt appear to fully resolve  these. Given  this they 
thought all repair costs  should have been refunded to Mr S.
Given when the issues arose and the failed repairs our adjudicator  thought Mr S should have 
been allowed  to reject the car instead of settling the agreement  early. They  thought it was 
now fair that Mr S be put back in the position  he would have been had he rejected the car. 
That is have  his deposit refunded along with interest; be refunded  the cost he incurred for 
repair and be refunded a months  instalment to reflect the impaired use he suffered. They 
also recommended  that he be paid the shortfall he suffered by trading in the car and paid 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.   
Blue Motor  didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the settlement figure  was 
requested on 10 May which was before  the complaint was closed on 13 May. It said that on 
10 May it explained to Mr S that it needed evidence of the issues present at that time to 
establish liability and that if it was liable  it would reimburse any costs. It says Mr S didnt 
provide any evidence and instead decided to part exchange the car. It says this was Mr S 
decision and so it didnt  accept any liability for any loss he made  as a result of this.
Ref: DRN95671942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a HPA with Blue Motor to acquire a used car. Under the regulations, Blue 
Motor can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this 
case the car was over nine years old at the pint of acquisition and had been driven around 
55,500 miles.
Mr S says that when  he acquired the car he was told that a full service  had been carried out 
including checks of the brakes.  But shortly  after acquisition  he experienced issues with the 
car. Under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  a consumer has a short  term right to reject if the 
car is found to be faulty or not fit for purpose  within the first 30 days. When  repairs are taking 
place the calculation on the 30 days is put on hold. After 30 days, Mr S would also have the 
right to reject if the repairs carried out werent  successful.
Mr S had issues soon after acquisition and the car was returned  for repairs.  Given repairs 
were required  so soon  after acquisition I find it reasonable to accept that the car wasnt  of  
satisfactory quality at the point of supply . As the faults were  identified within the first 30 days 
Mr S would have had the option to reject  the car however it appears he accepted the offer of 
repairs.
Had the repairs been successful this may have been  a reasonable resolution. However 
further issues arose and the car was returned  to the garage at end of March  following a 
recovery by a roadside assistance company. The car was in for an extended period of time 
at that time. Mr S contacted Blue Motor on 24 April to say that he was due to collect  the car 
and that if there were  further issues he would no longer want the car. At this time Mr S was 
told that if there were  further issues he would need to get a diagnostic report to show the 
faults and to establish if Blue Motor was liable.
Mr S collected the car and further  issues arose.  Repairs were attempted  but these didnt fully 
resolve the issues so I think it would  have been reasonable for Mr S to be allowed to reject 
the car. I have listened to the call Mr S had with Blue Motor finance  and it is clear he is 
asking for support and advice and explained  his concerns about paying  for diagnostics on 
the car. 
Blue Motor  said that it would need  a diagnostics report to show any liability. However  as 
these issues occurred  within the first six months, and some within the first month, the onus 
was on Blue Motor to show that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It 
should have assisted Mr S further  and offered an inspection if that was what was required.  
Mr S was clearly struggling at the time to understand how to move  things  forward.  He 
explained his need for a reliable car and I do not find he was given  the support he shouldve 
been given the numerous issues  he experienced.
Overall, I find it would have been reasonable for Blue Motor to have told Mr S he could reject 
the car when  he explained the issues he had experienced.
Mr S decided to part exchange the car. This was his choice but based  on the evidence I 
have seen he may have  felt he had no choice but to take actions to resolve  the issue.  I think  
that had he been provided the option  of rejecting the car he would  have done  so.
Ref: DRN95671943Therefore I find the fair resolution  given the unique circumstances of this complaint is for 
Mr S to be put back in the position  he would  have been had the car been rejected. This 
means that he is refunded the shortfall he suffered on part exchange  and is refunded the 
deposit he paid for the car along with interest.
Mr S experienced limited  use of the car due to the issues.  He was provided with a courtesy 
car but has explained  he also experience issues with this. Therefore I agree with our 
investigator that he should  be refunded  a months repayment to account for the limited use 
he had and issues with the alternative transport provided.
Mr S also had to pay for repairs to the car. The main payment related to the brakes. Issues 
with the brakes  tend to be considered wear and tear items. However I note how soon the 
issue arose and the information Mr S has provided  about the nature of the issue.  I can also 
see from the previous  MOT that there  were  advisory  items  listed  noting brake pipe corrosion. 
Mr S says he was told that the brakes  had been checked along with a service  being carried  
out before  the car was provided.  Therefore, on balance, I find that this payment should be 
refunded as it seems  more likely  than not that the issue  was present at the point of supply. 
Mr S should  also be refunded the other repair costs he incurred  less any refund he has 
already received.
Mr S was caused inconvenience due to the issues  he experienced with his car. He had to 
return the car on multiple occasions, was provided  with a faulty courtesy car, and had to 
carry out repairs at his own cost. I find it reasonable that he is paid compensation of £250 
because of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.refund  Mr S the deposit he paid towards the car (recorded in the HPA as £1,200);
2.refund  one month's  worth of instalments;
3.refund  full repair costs  paid by Mr S (minus the £120 already reimbursed); 
4.pay Mr S the trade-in shortfall  of £343.71;
5.pay £250 as compensation for distress  and inconvenience the issues have caused.
Items 1, 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9567194