K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to perform appropriate 
checks before issuing three loans to her and she was unhappy  about  the treatment she 
received in 2017 when  she told RBS she was having financial problems. Ms B wants  the 
debt interest from the middle of 2015  refunded and her case  transferred to a specialist debt 
team.
background
Ms B said she had the following  credit agreements from 2013  to 2016: 
Start  Date Term Type of credit Amount
August 2013 Credit card limit £5,900
5 January 2015 5 years Loan  1 (to pay off 
the credit card)£5,900
13 October 2015 5 years Loan 2 (used to 
reduce the credit 
card balance) £7,950
2 March  2016 5 years Loan  3 (to pay the 
balances on Loan 
2 and the credit  
card)£13,900
Ms B said she also told RBS she was living with her parents from mid-2015 and paid them 
£450 per month rent but she says RBS told her it did not take rent into consideration when 
calculating her expenditure.
Ms B first told RBS of her financial  difficulties in her letter dated 14 May 2017. A review of 
her financial  status documents and statements may not have made that clear. RBS initially 
sent her debt to a debt collecting agency. RBS acknowledged  this wasnt  the best option for 
her so it got her debt back from the agency and placed it with a specialist team  that was 
better designed to deal with her circumstances. RBS froze  her interest  for a few months and 
agreed to a repayment plan at a reduced rate.
RBS said it used internal  credit scoring to assess her credit worthiness.  It found  that Ms Bs 
declared net income had increased on each  occasion and her credit scores were  generally 
the same. RBS said: 
Loan 1 was affordable based on Ms Bs circumstances at the time;
Loan 2 was also affordable based  on her outgoings but it did account  for her rental 
payments; 
RBS did not take rent into account  when it calculated affordability of Loan 3  if it had 
done, the loan would  have been declined.
Our investigator partially upheld her complaint. He said the 3 loans were affordable but RBS 
had lent irresponsibly on Loans 2 and 3 as he said it was clear from Ms Bs credit history  that 
she could not manage medium term debt. The investigator suggested  the following 
settlement:
allow the January  2015 loan (Loan 1) to run on its original terms
reverse all interest and charges applied to the 3 October 2015 loan (Loan 2)
Ref: DRN97276512reverse all interest and charges applied to the 2 March  2016 loan (Loan 3)
remove any reference of Loans 2 and 3 from Ms B's credit file
arrange a freeze  on Ms Bs credit  card account and reduce her credit limit as the 
balance reduces until it reaches an agreed manageable limit
allow Ms B to continue repayments  in line with her financial circumstances
pay Ms B £350 for her distress  and inconvenience caused by the lack of sympathetic 
and positive treatment  and by the irresponsible lending.
Ms B agreed to accept the settlement  but RBS disagreed with our investigators view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again. 
RBS added the following points: 
It felt Loans 1 and 2 were affordable and lent responsibly  so it does  not propose 
any action about those. 
Ms B was under  no obligation to take out the loans if she felt they were not 
affordable;
it was her responsibility to pay off the credit  card and close  the account but she 
chose to keep  using it;
the interest rate on Loan 3 was lower than Loan 2, so she was in a better financial 
position;
she only told RBS about her financial difficulties in 2017, so RBS says it should not 
have to reverse interest and charges on borrowing prior to that;
RBS did not make  any errors, so it does not agree to remove entries  of Loans 2 and 
3 from Ms Bs credit  file;
RBS agreed to do the following in respect  of Loan 3:
if Ms B had mentioned rent in her application  for loan 3, then it would have been 
included in the calculations and the loan would have  been  declined  so it agrees to 
refund the interest on Loan  3 only and to reduce the outstanding balances  
accordingly; 
RBS agrees to pay Ms B £350  for her distress and inconvenience;
The credit  file should not be amended as Ms Bs full credit history  should be correctly 
recorded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, I agree  with our investigator so I am going  to partially uphold this 
complaint. I know this will disappoint Ms B so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When lending money to a consumer,  RBS is required to ensure the consumer can repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
Ref: DRN97276513As a lender  RBS should obtain sufficient information  to make an informed decision about the 
lending. Exactly what a lender should consider  is for each lender to decide and the guidance 
and rules list a number of things each lender may wish to consider. Any checks  should be 
proportionate, based on the size of the borrowing and the borrowers financial situation at the 
time he makes the application to borrow. In this case, I would have expected  RBS to look at, 
for example, Ms Bs income and expenditure, calculate her disposable income, look at how 
she managed her previous credit agreements, her reason for borrowing and the length of 
borrowing.
At the time Ms B took out her first loan, she had already used most of the credit  limit on her 
credit card. I think it is reasonable  to conclude from her income and expenditure figures and 
based on what RBS knew about  her and her payment history that she was able to afford the 
credit card and the first loan. So I dont think RBS did anything wrong here.
However, nine months later, Ms B took out a second loan to pay off the first loan and the 
credit card balance. She said RBS told her it would not look at her rental costs although RBS 
says if her rent had been included, Loan 2 repayments would still have been affordable.  I 
agree with our investigator that the Loan  2 repayments probably  were affordable. However,  I 
think its reasonable for RBS to have noticed  how Ms B handled her previous credit  
agreements. I think  she was taking out another loan only nine months later for the same  
reason as she took out the first loan and theres  no mention at this stage of a better interest 
rate. So I think this loan was lent irresponsibly.  
A further  five months after that, Ms B took out a third loan to pay off the second  loan and the 
credit card balance for a second time. Each  loan was for a five year term but its clear Ms B 
needed more  credit much earlier and most  likely could not manage her credit.  I understand 
RBSs point that Ms B was in a better  position financially due to the lower interest rate on the 
third loan. But she was now attempting to pay off her credit card balance for a third time 
within a period of 14 months. So I think this probably was lent irresponsibly.
financial difficulty
When a business  knows a consumer has financial difficulties, it must  act positively and 
sympathetically. It doesnt have to take specific action but there  are several  things it can do, 
like freezing interest, accepting reduced  payments, etc. 
In this case, after Ms B told RBS she was in financial difficulty  in 2017 after a change  in her 
circumstances, it transferred her debt to a debt collection agency which I dont  think was 
positive or sympathetic treatment. RBS agrees. It rectified that by freezing her interest  for a 
few months and it agreed a repayment plan at a reduced rate.
Taking everything into account,  I am going to partially uphold  this complaint because I think  
Loans 2 and 3 were  lent irresponsibly, so I will be requiring RBS to refund the interest and 
charges on those two loans to reduce the loans - due to irresponsible  lending.  I also think 
RBS should pay Ms B £350 for her distress  and inconvenience for RBSs initial action  over 
her financial  difficulty and RBS should  restrict her credit card from future overuse. However, I 
will not be asking RBS to write off the loans or amend Ms Bs credit file as I think  she had the 
full benefit of the money and I think the credit file should be a true reflection of the money 
she currently owes.
Ref: DRN97276514my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc should do the following:
Allow the 5 January 2015 loan to run on its original terms;
Refund all interest  and charges applied to the loan taken out on 13 October 2015 and 
to reduce the outstanding  balances  accordingly;
Refund all interest  and charges applied to the loan taken out on 2 March 2016  and to 
reduce the outstanding balances accordingly;
Arrange a freeze on Ms Bs credit card account  and reduce  her credit limit as the 
balance reduces until it reaches an agreed manageable limit;
Allow Ms B to continue repayments  in line with her agreed repayment plan;
Pay Ms B £350 for her distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9727651