K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that Devitt Insurance Services Ltd automatically renewed  his motor cycle  
insurance in August 2018. 
background
Mr C says he received renewal documentation for his motorcycle  policy  from Devitt.  He 
didnt want the policy to renew and assumed it wouldnt as his debit card used to pay 
previously had expired.  So, he took no action. Despite this the policy was renewed and a 
payment taken. Hes unhappy a payment  was taken from his card without authorisation and 
with the amount that has been  refunded  to him after the policy was cancelled. He would like 
a further refund.
Devitt said in its final response that the policy was renewed automatically on 1 August 2018 
to ensure payment was collected before the renewal date of 10 August 2018. A letter was 
sent to Mr C on 20 July 2018  advising that the policy would automatically  renew  and 
explaining what would happen. As Mr C still owned the bike and cover  had been  in place it 
was unable to later provide a full refund.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Devitts terms of business sent when the policy was first taken out say it will be 
automatically renewed. And the renewal documents Devitt  sent to Mr C confirm  the 
policy will be automatically renewed  and make clear that if he didnt want the renewal 
to go ahead he should contact it. As Mr C didnt contact Devitt  it was fair for it to 
renew the policy.
Mr C is unhappy that Devitt was able to take payment from his card even though  it 
had expired. But whether or not a payment is released is a matter for the card issuer.
Devitt is a broker and isnt responsible for setting  the premium charged  by the actual  
insurer. So if Mr C is unhappy about  the amount of premium returned  to him he will 
need to take that up with the insurer. But Devitt  seems to have correctly worked out 
the fees for renewing  and cancelling  the policy. And they appear proportionate and 
reasonable.
Overall Devitt has handled matters fairly and he doesnt think it should have to do 
anything more.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He has questioned 
whether Devitt has evidence he authorised automatic renewals. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
When Mr C took out the policy in August  2017  he was sent a covering letter  which said he 
should check all the documents within this pack and ensure he read his policy terms and 
Ref: DRN98514212conditions. Those terms clearly say that if he paid in full by credit or debit  card Devitt would 
arrange for the policy to be automatically renewed.
As such I think  Devitt was acting within the agreed  terms and conditions  by automatically 
renewing the policy in August 2018.
Furthermore Mr C was told in the renewal  documentation  to contact Devitt if he didnt want  to 
renew. But he didnt  do so. Instead he assumed, wrongly as it turned  out, that as his card 
had expired the payment  wouldnt go through and the policy wouldnt renew.
I understand this was frustrating for Mr C but the authorisation of the payment is a matter  for 
the card issuer not Devitt. And as the adjudicator has said if he remains  unhappy about this 
he will need  to take this matter up the card issuer.
It also appears that Mr C was told of Devitts  charges and fees for renewals  and 
cancellations. And they appear to have  been properly applied in this case. If he is unhappy 
about the amount of premium refunded to him he will need to contact the actual insurer.  
Overall, I dont  think Devitt has done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. And I dont 
think I can fairly ask it to refund any more money  to Mr C as hed like. 
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9851421