K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd hasnt calculated the contractual minimum payments on his 
credit card account correctly.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 3 December 2019.  A copy of this is 
attached below and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this 
complaint. And I explained why I didnt think it should be upheld.  I said that I thought  
NewDay had calculated  the contractual minimum payments on Mr Ks account  correctly. And 
that his balance had been increasing because he had been making a new purchase each 
month.  
NewDay said that it agreed with my provisional  decision. Mr K didnt,  and responded with 
some detailed comments.
In summary  he said Id interpreted the FCAs guidance incorrectly, and that the charges 
element referred  to in CONC 6.5.7R included purchases for the purpose of account 
calculations in respect of the minimum payment. 
He said he felt the minimum monthly payment  should be set at a sufficient level to facilitate a 
gradual reducing account balance. And that it should be reasonable to rely on the statement 
Contractual minimum payments  if you only make the minimum payment each month   it 
will take you longer  and cost you more to clear your balance.
He also maintains that NewDays  approach is contrary  that taken by other credit card 
companies. And says that its stance contravenes FCA guidelines and rules  governing  
perpetual debt. He is unhappy that NewDay hasnt got copies  of letters  it sent when it 
assumed ownership  of his account.  And said that when it did this it also assumed ownership 
of the applicable terms and conditions.  
Mr K has also advised that his PPI premiums are not charged at 1.5%  of his account 
balance as I stated  in my provisional decision,  but at 1.47%.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but Ive reached the same conclusions  I did in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why this is. But firstly  I just wanted to clarify that whilst Mr K 
has asked me to comment on some specific points  and answer  a series of questions  hes 
put forward, I havent structured my findings  in such a manner. I hope he wont take this as a 
discourtesy. But this wouldnt be in keeping with the informal nature of our service. My 
decision focuses on what I believe to be the main issues  here. But Id like to assure  Mr K I 
have read and considered everything  hes told us.
Ref: DRN91228972Mr K feels  that Ive interpreted CONC 6.5.7R  incorrectly. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, this provides  that A firm must  set the minimum  required repayment  under a 
regulated credit agreement for a credit  card or a store card at an amount equal to at least  
that amount  which repays the interest,  fees and charges that have been applied to the 
customers account, plus one percentage of the amount outstanding. 
The dispute  here seems  to come down to the way NewDay has treated Mr Ks account cover 
(PPI) premiums  when  calculating the contractual minimum payments on his account. Mr K 
feels it should have  factored  this amount into the contractual minimum payment in full. 
I explained in my provisional decision  that I didnt consider this premium  to be a charge. 
Whilst the premiums are based  on his credit card balance,  I said it is still essentially a 
purchase he is choosing  to make each  month.  And which he is paying for using his credit 
card. Im still of this opinion. In my provisional decision I also noted  NewDay  isnt the 
provider of this insurance  cover. To clarify,  I wouldve reached the same decision here even 
if it was.
Mr K has suggested that purchases amount to charges. But Im afraid I dont  agree  there  is 
any expectation that the minimum  payment  will cover his monthly spending in full. This 
would effectively require  credit card holders to clear  the full balance  on their account  each 
month  which  is akin to the way a chargecard operates. Credit cards generally  allow  
holders to carry a balance, and to repay this over time. 
Im still satisfied NewDay calculated Mr Ks contractual minimum payment correctly. This is 
calculated based  on his account balance,  i.e. level of borrowing,  at the time statements are 
generated. I see the minimum payments were at a level that did initially reduce the 
outstanding balance on his account.  But as Mr K then made a further purchase each month, 
his balance had increased again by the time the next statement was generated
I understand Mr K is frustrated NewDay hasnt been  able to provide us with more  
documentation. But given  the amount of time that has passed  since it took over his account, 
I dont think this is necessarily unusual. And Im satisfied Im able to reach a fair and 
reasonable decision here. 
Mr K has told us other credit  card providers calculate contractual minimum payments 
differently. And it may be that this is the case. But my decision is only focused on the actions 
of NewDay. And Ive explained why I dont think its made a mistake or treated him unfairly.
I do think some of the letters NewDay sent Mr K in response to this complaint could have 
been worded differently to help him better understand how it calculates his contractual 
minimum payment. But I havent found that its made an error. 
I note Mr Ks comments about the amount  of his PPI premiums.  My provisional  decision can 
be read with 1.47%  replacing 1.5% if he considers  that this was incorrect. 
Ref: DRN91228973my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91228974copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd hasnt  calculated the contractual minimum payments on his credit  
card account  correctly.
background
Mr K is unhappy  that the outstanding balance on his credit card account has been increasing  each 
month even  though hes been making the contractual minimum payments NewDay  has asked for. 
He says the relevant  regulations state  that a minimum  payment must be calculated  in a way that 
results in a progressive decrease in the outstanding balance of the account each month. So he 
doesnt feel NewDay has acted fairly here. 
He explained this to NewDay. And he asked it to put his account in the position it would have been  in 
if the contractual minimum payments had been set at a level that did reduce  the overall  outstanding  
balance of the account. But NewDay said that the interest it had been applying  to Mr Ks account was 
valid. It explained  that the account cover (payment protection insurance or PPI) he makes payments 
for each month  is classed as a purchase. And that this purchase is correctly calculated  within the 
minimum monthly installment it asks for at 1% of the outstanding balance. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  They didnt think NewDay had 
sufficiently taken Mr Ks account cover into consideration when calculating his minimum payments. 
And noted that his account balance  had increased steadily since NewDay  had taken  it over.  They  
asked NewDay to recalculate  the contractual minimum  payments that had been  made  to Mr Ks 
account since  August 2014. And to amend the account balance accordingly. They  also asked it to pay 
Mr K £100 compensation.  
Mr K accepted these recommendations, but NewDay didnt. It says its correctly  calculated 
Mr Ks minimum payments in line with the relevant regulations and guidelines. So the case has been 
passed to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I dont think NewDay has made  an error here. Ill 
explain why.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  has set out how the contractual  minimum  payment for a credit  
card should be calculated. Details of this can be found in the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook. CONC 
6.7.5R provides that; 
A firm must set the minimum required repayment under a regulated credit agreement for a credit card 
or a store card at an amount equal to at least that amount  which repays  the interest, fees and charges 
that have  been applied to the customers account,  plus one percentage of the amount outstanding.  
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions  of Mr Ks account. These state that; 
Your contractual minimum payment will be the higher of: A. £5  or if you owe less than £5, the full 
amount you owe (e.g. if you owe £2 that will be the contractual minimum payment); or B. the sum of 
(i) interest, (ii) default fees and (iii) 1% of the full amount you owe,  (including the interest and default 
fees) as shown on your monthly statement.
Ref: DRN91228975This is in line with the guidelines Ive set out above.  So Im satisfied that the calculation NewDay says 
it uses to work  out the contractual minimum payment for Mr Ks account is fair. And having looked  
carefully at his credit  card statements I also think its calculated this correctly in practice here.
I can see that Mr K pays  for insurance cover (PPI) which is debited from his account  each month.  His 
statements indicate this is charged at 1.5% of his account  balance. 
NewDay has provided  us with a copy of the original credit agreement Mr K completed when he took 
out the account. I can see he opted for Payment and Purchase Protection and agreed to his account 
being debited with the relevant premium  until further  notice. NewDay has also clarified that its not the 
provider of this insurance cover, and that this cover was purchased prior to the account  being  passed 
to NewDay in 2014.
I can see Mr K feels  these  premiums should be treated as a fee or charge. But Im afraid I dont  
agree. These premiums arent interest or fees, theyre a recurring purchase. So each month Mr K has 
been making  a purchase which is added to the outstanding  balance of his account.
When the contractual minimum payment is calculated  only 1% of the outstanding  balance (which 
includes purchases) is included. However Mr Ks PPI premiums are calculated at 1.5% of his 
outstanding balance. So, as hes only been  making the contractual  minimum payment and no further 
contributions, Mr Ks overall account balance has continued to increase because  hes spending more  
on purchases than hes paying off each month. 
Theres no expectation that the contractual minimum payment should cover Mr Ks monthly spending. 
Thats not how a credit  card operates. If Mr K continues to make purchases with his credit card, the 
balance of his account  is going to increase if he only makes the contractual  minimum payment each 
month. And this would be the case irrespective of what he spends that money  on, whether that be PPI 
or other  purchases. 
If Mr K continues to purchase the PPI but wants his credit  card account balance to start decreasing, 
he needs to repay more than the contractual minimum payment  each month.  Based on his current 
usage hed need to repay enough to cover  interest, fees and more than 1.5% of the outstanding  
balance on his account, as this is the amount being added  to the balance each month.  
I feel I should  clarify here that I cant be certain whether Mr Ks previous credit card provider took the 
same approach to this charge as NewDay has. And given the amount of time that has passed 
NewDay doesnt have  copies of any relevant letters it may have  sent to Mr K when  it took over his 
account. But Im satisfied that, for the reasons Ive outlined above,  NewDay  has treated Mr K fairly 
and reasonably here. I havent seen anything that makes  me think its made  mistakes when 
calculating the contractual minimum payments due on his account.  
NewDay has also shown  us that its identified  that Mr Ks account is in persistent debt, (i.e. that his 
account balance  has been  continuously increasing), and sent him in a letter  in July 2019 advising; 
Weve noticed  that over the last 18 months youve paid more in interest, fees and charges  than 
youve repaid  towards  the amount you borrowed. This usually happens when you pay only the 
contractual minimum payment, or an amount close to it, each month.  Having read the full contents of 
this letter Im satisfied that NewDay has met its obligations to highlight this to Mr K and let him know 
how he could reduce the overall cost of his borrowing and pay his balance sooner. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined 
above.
 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91228976
Ref: DRN9122897