K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr G says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as TSB,  mis-sold him the PPI.
The evidence available shows the PPI was taken out at some  point between 1996, when 
Mr G opened his credit card account  and 2000, which  is the earliest date statements are 
available showing PPI being charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds has very limited information still available about this PPI sale. But thats  not 
particularly surprising  as businesses arent  required to keep such records over these 
very long time periods.  And its also not surprising that Mr G cant remember  much about 
it either. Lloyds hasnt been  able to give me a copy of the credit card application Mr G 
signed at the time. This means  I dont know much about how the policy  was sold or how 
PPI was presented  to Mr G. Lloyds  have sent us an example of an application  form that 
they say would have been used at around  the time of the sale.  But I cant safely  
conclude that this was the type of application  form Mr G would have filled in, so Ive not 
relied on it.
However, this service has seen quite  a number of complaints  within the period of time 
when Mr G must have bought his policy. This means weve been able to develop a 
relatively good understanding of Lloyds usual sales processes then. And were 
generally satisfied  that Lloyds  made the optional nature of the PPI clear and sought  its 
customers consent before adding it to their accounts. The PPI premiums also appeared 
on Mr Gs credit card statements. And had Mr G not agreed to take the PPI, I would 
have expected him to have questioned why he was being charged these premiums. So 
on the basis of the limited  information available, I think  its more  likely than not that 
Lloyds made  it clear to Mr G he didnt have  to take out the PPI and he actively  chose to. 
Although Lloyds cant say whether it advised  Mr G to take out PPI, Ive assumed this to 
be the case. This is because it means  that Lloyds had to ensure that the policy  was 
suitable for him. I dont know how it did this, but from what I know  of his circumstances at 
the time,  I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable.
Mr G appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mr G says he would have  received sick pay from his employer. 
He also says he and his partner had savings  at the time, which he could have used to 
make his card payments if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. And he says that his family would have been  willing  to help him in need. 
But the PPI would have paid out for up to twelve months and in addition to any other 
means he might have had at the time. So I still think he would have valued the extra 
security the policy  gave him.
Ref: DRN91374012Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr G. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Lloyds needed  to give Mr G enough information about the PPI for him to decide  if he 
wanted it. I think Lloyds  could  have given him better information than it did. But for much 
the same  reasons  that I dont think  the policy was unsuitable for him, I dont think  better 
information would have changed his mind about taking it. I still think  he would have 
thought it gave him useful cover at an affordable price.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr G has made in responding to the adjudicators  
view. But these dont  change my mind  about  not upholding his complaint. This means Lloyds  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But Lloyds has paid back some of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does  not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9137401