K820x#14complaint
Mrs M (on behalf of her business, M) says Insurance  Factory  Ltd mis-sold it a business 
protection insurance policy. 
background
M has a business protection policy arranged through Insurance Factory.  In March 2018  
Mrs M contacted the insurer  and asked if M could make a claim under  the policy as its 
landlord said he wouldnt be renewing its lease. The insurer explained the policy  only 
provided business interruption cover where there had been damage to property. 
In July Insurance Factory contacted Mrs M to find out if she wanted to renew her policy as 
the insurer had told it she might have moved premises. Mrs M confirmed that wasnt the 
case and queried  what the business interruption section of the policy  would cover. Insurance  
Factory said this covered  anything out of your control such as a burst  pipe. It said this 
would all be detailed in the terms it would be sending out. After receiving those terms Mrs M 
renewed the policy. 
In September  she made a claim because Ms landlord had decided to do building  work  at its 
business premises. And the business  needed  to close while this took place. The insurer said 
as the claim wasnt caused by an insured peril it wasnt covered. Mrs M complained  to 
Insurance Factory  and said if that had been made  clear at renewal shed have sought cover  
elsewhere. 
Insurance Factory  accepted it should  have been clearer  about  what the policy  provided.  It 
offered to cover the cost of the policy for a year and pay £100 to reflect the inconvenience M 
had been caused. Our investigator thought that was fair but Mrs M didnt agree. 
She said she questioned what the policy would cover with Insurance Factory following her 
contact with the insurer in March. And Insurance Factory told her in a number of phone calls 
and in writing that it would cover anything outside of her control. Mrs M says if shed been  
given the correct information  she might  have been  able to get cover  elsewhere that would  
have covered M for what then happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate theres  been a significant impact on M as it had to close  while building  works 
took place. And I agree  Insurance Factory  should  have been  clearer  when Mrs M queried  
what the business interruption part of the policy would cover. I note that during the call the 
advisor also sent her an email which didnt make clear what the limits on this cover  were 
either. 
But Mrs M didnt decide  to renew the policy during that call; the advisor said shed send  out 
documentation which  explained in more detail what the terms and conditions  of the policy  
were. Mrs M says she looked at that information  and because  that didnt match with what  
shed been told by advisor she called  Insurance Factory again to discuss  it. She told us 
when she thought this call had taken place  and said during it she was again told the policy 
would cover anything  outside her control. 
Ref: DRN92838942However, Ive listened to the calls Insurance Factory had with Mrs M on the day shes  
mentioned and they dont contain  any discussion of this; the calls are to check  whether 
Mrs M does  want  to renew the insurance which she confirmed by email  later that day. And 
while there were then two calls the following  month these are about a different issue  relating 
to a direct  debit payment. Ive also looked at the call logs Insurance  Factory  provided and 
these dont record any other calls. 
Given that I cant safely conclude there  were  any issues  with the information Insurance 
Factory provided after its first call with Mrs M. And shes acknowledged following that she 
looked at the policy  terms and so would have been aware of the limits to the business 
interruption cover. That appears  to have confirmed information which the insurer had drawn 
to her attention when  she contacted it about  making  a separate claim in March.  So I cant 
say her decision to renew the policy was taken on the basis of the inaccurate information  
Insurance Factory  initially provided her with. 
In any event I dont  think  Mrs M would have acted  differently if shed had more information.  
Shes suggested she might have  been  to find another policy  that would have covered M for 
what happened. But my understanding is that business interruption policies generally limit 
cover to business interruption following damage  to insured property (as is the case here).  
And they almost always contain a material  damage  proviso which means  cover  will only be 
provided where an insurer has accepted liability for putting right that damage. 
That isnt the case with the claim Mrs M subsequently made  and I think its unlikely shed 
have been able to find a business interruption policy that would have covered this at a price  
shed have been prepared to pay. In addition she wouldnt of course have known when 
taking out cover that was a claim she would need to make. So I dont  think  having more  
information would have affected  her decision to renew this policy. 
And I think the settlement Insurance Factory has proposed (which involves arranging  free 
cover for a year and paying  £100) is a fair way of recognising the inconvenience M was 
caused by what  it got wrong. I understand thats  already  been  done. I appreciate  that doesnt 
come close  to reimbursing M for the losses its actually incurred  but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think thats something Insurance Factory is responsible for. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think Insurance Factory Ltd has already 
done enough to put things right. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M (on behalf of M) to accept or reject  my decision before 17 May 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9283894