K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies.
background
Mr S bought the policies in 2003  and 2004 at the same time as taking out loans with 
Nationwide. The loans included  amounts to pay for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr S aware the PPI was optional and that he chose to take the 
policies out. I say this because  the PPI is shown as Optional Credit  Insurance on both 
of the loan agreements that Mr S signed. So I think Mr S wouldve realised that the PPI 
was optional and that he had a choice about  whether  or not to buy it.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S. But it had to give him clear enough 
information about the policies so he could decide if he wanted to buy them.  Its possible 
the information Nationwide gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But I dont think better  information would have  stopped Mr S from buying the policies. I 
explain why I say that below. 
-Mr S was eligible  for the policies.
-Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policies didnt  cover. But 
its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of these.
-I think its likely that Mr S had a need  for the cover the policies could  provide.  Mr S 
has told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and he had some savings. 
But the policies  wouldve  paid out in addition  to Mr Ss existing arrangements, and 
wouldve allowed him to use his sick pay and savings to cover  other  expenses. So I 
think Mr S couldve found the policies useful.
. 
-The cost of each  policy  was shown on the loan agreements   including the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium  and the total cost. So I think  Mr S 
would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if he kept the policies for their 
full term. 
Ref: DRN96718722So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr S 
off taking out the cover. 
When I take all of these  points into account,  Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9671872