K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought a PPI policy which was attached  to a credit card.  Due to the time that has 
passed, its not clear  how Mrs M applied  for her PPI policy. Mrs M says she applied  for the 
PPI during a meeting in January 2000.  But Lloydss records  show that the credit card 
opened in 1994, and although January 2000  is the first statement they hold, this already has 
PPI on it, so it mustve been sold before then. Lloyds has assumed she bought the PPI in 
1994 at the same time as taking out the credit card, and in a meeting as suggested  by 
Mrs M. 
Based on how these policies tended to be sold at the time, I think its more likely she bought  
it at the same time as taking out the credit  card, which was in 1994.  Mrs M says she bought 
it during a meeting, and Ive got no reason to doubt  what she says. 
At the time of sale, Mrs M was employed as a factory worker.  She has told us she was 
entitled to sick pay, death in service benefit  and redundancy  pay through her employer. She 
also adds that her husband  couldve  help her towards repaying her credit card should  she be 
unable to work. 
Mrs M has said she was in good health  in 1994 but did develop  some medical problems 
some years later. 
The policy provided  cover  for life accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ms credit  card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed before 2005. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN99954542claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  before 2005. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN99954543The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN99954544Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs M have  been  able to provide me with copies of the original 
documents from the time of sale. Thats  not surprising given how long ago this policy was 
likely sold.  But it does mean  I have  limited information about  the sale,  so I have to decide  
what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Lloyds has provided  me with a sample  copy of the branch credit card application  form it says 
it was using around the time Mrs M applied for her credit card. This had a separate  section  
for PPI  with a Yes option for customers to tick if they wanted PPI, and an equally 
prominent No option for customers to select if they didnt want PPI. So, it looks like in branch 
meetings, the PPI was presented as optional. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around  the time Mrs M likely bought her PPI, and 
through to 2000, so have  developed a good understanding  of how these policies were  
normally sold. Lloyds usually made the optional  nature of the PPI clear  in sales made in 
branch and wouldnt add it to its customers  account unless they agreed to it, as part of its 
usual process. I havent seen anything thats makes  me doubt  that Lloyds followed its normal 
process in Mrs Ms case. 
I can also see that the PPI is included in Mrs Ms monthly credit  card statements, so had she 
not agreed to take PPI, I wouldve expected her to have questioned what  this charge was at 
the time,  and Ive seen no evidence that she did.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mrs M say that advice wasnt provided. Lloyds doesnt know if it provided advice in 1994  as it 
doesnt know how the policy was sold but has agreed to treat the sale as advised.  My 
understanding is that sale was made  in branch  and, from what  Ive seen of sales made in 
branch by Lloyds,  they were usually advised.  Additionally, an advised sale holds Lloyds to a 
higher standard. This means Lloyds had to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances. So, Ive assessed the sale as advised. 
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. It seems Mrs M cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs M would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
Ref: DRN99954545there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs M given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
says she would  have  been entitled to. And while  I have no doubt her husband would  
want to help her if she was unable to work, his ability to help would depend on his 
own circumstances at the time, which could change so I dont think  that help could be 
guaranteed. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim at the time of sale.  The medical  
conditions shes mentioned were all experienced after the likely time of sale.   
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ms 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs M was given  a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs M would  have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. And I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was. 
I am also satisfied Mrs M would have realised  the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would  
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
Ref: DRN99954546would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs M 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs M might have  been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mrs M all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs M, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
Ref: DRN99954547In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs M would  have  acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs M ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mrs M 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability caused  or contributed  to by a 
condition for which  Mrs M consulted or received treatment from a doctor in the 12-
month period  prior to the commencement  date of insurance;  
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN99954548But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mrs M might  reasonably  
have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mrs M, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
To make a disability claim, Mrs M needed to be totally unable to do her job. I dont think this 
is likely  to be too different  to what she would have expected to make a claim. After all, she 
bought cover to protect her payments if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely she would have thought  shed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if she was still working.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN99954549Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9995454