K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) in relation 
to his bank account.
background
Mr C says the events hes complaining  about arise from his decision to close his account 
following a previous complaint to BoS that resulted in it paying him £75 compensation. He 
says he was told a member of BoS staff would let the relevant branch know  that he planned 
to visit to withdraw funds,  but this didnt happen. And he says he wasnt  taken through chip 
and pin verification when he went to the branch to withdraw the funds.
Mr C also says he was unhappy about  the questions he was asked in relation to his 
proposed withdrawal of funds and he felt he was being racially profiled. He says BoS staff 
called the police when this wasnt necessary and they discussed his information with the 
police in breach  of data protection legislation. And he says BoS staff also breached  data 
protection by discussing his information  with his partner who attended  the branch with him 
and in handing her a cheque for his money.
BoS upheld the aspect  of Mr Cs complaint relating to the failure to notify the branch of his 
planned visit and it  paid him £50 compensation. But it rejected all other aspects of his 
complaint. So, Mr C complained to this service.
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
the size of the withdrawal and BoSs compliance  obligations  were the reasons for the 
questions Mr C had been asked. She said banks  are high risk environments,  so she didnt 
think it had been  an overreaction to call the police.  And she said the £50 BoS had offered  
Mr C for its error in not notifying  the branch of his proposed visit was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said the branch staff made him feel 
as if he was trying to commit fraud. He said he was upset and his voice may have been 
raised, but he wasnt abusive.  And he said he considers the way he was treated, including  
the questions  he was asked and the decision to call the police, involved discrimination.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its regrettable that the BoS branch hadnt been notified of Mr Cs planned visit to withdraw  
the balance of his account. This failure clearly created  misunderstanding  thats likely to have 
contributed to the events which followed.  
However, I see BoS has  paid Mr C £50 compensation for this error  and its given feedback 
to the relevant member of staff about  the matter. I think this is reasonable and I dont think  it 
would be fair for me to require BoS to pay Mr C any further compensation or to take any 
other action  in relation to this error.
Ref: DRN94178102Its clear Mr C was unhappy about  the questions he was asked in relation to the money he 
was withdrawing. But BoS was required to ask these questions to comply with its regulatory  
obligations in view of the amount of money  involved. Ive also seen information indicating 
chip and pin verification did take place.  So, I cant uphold  these aspects of Mr Cs complaint.
I note Mr Cs acknowledged raising  his voice in the branch, but he denies being abusive  to 
staff. And I see the police report  confirms no offence had been committed. But taking into 
account what both sides have told us, I think its fair to say that things got heated  in the 
branch that day and BoS felt it was right to call the police. But BoS is entitled  to do that as a 
business. So bearing this in mind,  along  with the risks associated  with banks, I cant  
conclude the decision to call the police was an overreaction  here.  So, I cant uphold  this 
aspect of Mr Cs complaint. 
The information Ive seen indicates  that at one point  during the discussion Mr C asked the 
staff to speak with his partner, rather than him. So, I cant conclude BoS did anything wrong 
in giving information to Mr Cs partner or in handing her the cheque.  Neither do I think it was 
wrong to give information to the police about the transaction  that had led to them  being  
called. I think the police  will have  needed  this information to decide  how to respond to the 
situation.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9417810