K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a course he purchased from TTR PT Limited wasnt  fit for purpose.
background
In November 2017 Mr M enrolled on a Security Technologist training course and entered  into 
a fixed sum loan agreement with TTR.  The amount of the loan was £2395.00  payable  by 36 
monthly payments  of £86.98. The course ran for 12 months so Mr M had until November 
2018 to complete it.
Mr M says he was unhappy with the course  for the following reasons:
The course was not complete. There were questions Mr M couldnt answer because  
he couldnt access the right resources.
He found the course much cheaper  elsewhere.
He feels he wasnt given the right advice about the course.  After  enrolling he was told 
by friends that he would struggle  to find a job in IT security  because of his age.
Some of the exams were retired during the course
Mr M raised  a complaint with TTR when he was told that the exams  were being retired. He 
says this was the final straw in the issues he had with the course.  Mr M cancelled his 
monthly payments  and asked TTR to refund all of the payments hed made. TTR refused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no information  to suggest 
that the course had been misrepresented and that although the exam retirement amounted 
to a breach of contract, TTR had taken action to remedy the breach.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he had relied  on advice given to him about  the course but felt 
hed been misled. He said the more he got into the course, the more  he was told by friends  
that he shouldnt  be pursuing this route.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill focus my comments  on what I think  is relevant. 
If I dont comment  on a specific point  its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the correct outcome.
Misrepresentation
If Mr M was told something that was incorrect, and if he relied  on this information when 
deciding to enter into the contract with TTR, then I would find TTR responsible under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr M enrolled on a course in Security Technologist. The content  of the course  was detailed 
in the course prospectus which was issued to Mr M. In order  to decide whether theres been 
Ref: DRN94532222a misrepresentation,  Ive looked at the available information about the course  content  to see 
whether this was what was delivered. From what I can see, the courses on the platform  were 
as described in the prospectus.
Mr M says he was advised by TTR that getting  into security was a great option. Based on 
the available  information, I havent  seen anything to suggest that this statement was 
incorrect. Moreover, its more of a statement of opinion than a statement of fact. Theres no 
evidence that Mr M was less likely to be successful in his chosen career because of his age. 
In any event, I wouldnt expect TTR to discriminate against a potential  student on grounds  of 
age. TTR has explained that it offers career support to all students when they have 
completed approximately 80% of the course. Mr M didnt progress this far but if he had, I 
think its likely that TTR would have helped  him to look for employment.
I appreciate that Mr Ms friends may have told him that his chosen  field would be difficult  to 
get into. However, this is simply their opinion, and I think  they would have offered the same 
opinion before Mr M enrolled on the course. I would have expected Mr M to have carried  out 
some research into his chosen  career to satisfy  himself that there  were  job prospects before 
he enrolled on the course.
On balance, I cant say that TTR has made a false statement which induced Mr M into 
entering the contract.
Incomplete course
Mr M has said that there were  questions on the course which  he couldnt answer because he 
couldnt access all the training materials. Ive reviewed  the information  and it looks  like the 
platform provides all of the information necessary to complete the course. I can see that Mr 
M contacted his tutor for support a few times and one of these occasions was related to 
problems Mr M was having in accessing  the platform. This was resolved by the tutor.  Theres 
no evidence to suggest that the training materials werent sufficient to enable students to 
complete the course successfully.
Course cheaper elsewhere
Mr M says he found the same course  cheaper  elsewhere. I can see that Mr M first raised  this 
with TTR In January 2018 and asked for a price reduction and some  additional courses.  I 
understand that Mr M would have been disappointed  to find the same course cheaper 
elsewhere. However, Mr M knew the cost of the TTR course  before he entered into the 
contract. If price was an important factor for Mr M, I would have expected him to have 
compare the prices of similar courses before enrolling.
Exam retirement
The exams  were retired during the course  and Mr M (along with other students) was told 
about this in March/April 2018. The decision to retire the exams was taken  by the awarding 
body. It meant that Mr M would have needed  to complete two courses and taken the relevant 
exams before the end of the 12 month  course.
Because the course length was shortened from what Mr M agreed,  Im satisfied that there 
has been a breach of contract  by TTR.  In circumstances  where  there has been  a breach of 
Ref: DRN94532223contract, I would expect  TTR to take steps to remedy the breach and put students  back  in 
the position they were in had the breach not occurred.
TTR has said that all students were  given an option to pay £92 to upgrade to a different 
exam, which  wouldnt  have been  taken  until the end of the 12 month course.  TTR has also 
said that this fee was waived for all students who asked  for this.
I think this was a reasonable way for TTR to remedy the breach. Mr M has said he doesnt  
remember being offered  the chance to upgrade.  But he also says he wouldnt have accepted 
the upgrade in any event because it would have cost him more money and by that time hed 
already become disillusioned with the course.
I can see that Mr M hadnt logged on to the platform for approximately  4 months at the time 
when the exam retirements  were announced. I think its clear that Mr M had already  lost 
interest in the course by this time and in the circumstances I cant  see that the exam 
retirement had any effect on his learning outcome. Based on Mr Ms lack of progress at that 
stage, I dont think its likely that he would have completed the course in any event.
Because of this Im of the view that although there  was a breach of contract, the breach was 
remedied for students who continued with the course. Im satisfied that the breach wouldve 
been remedied for Mr M had he continued with the course.
I understand that Mr M feels that the course wasnt suited to the direction he wants his 
career to take. But I havent seen any evidence  to persuade me that he was misled into 
entering the agreement or that theres been  a breach of contract which  hasnt been 
remedied.
Therefore I wont be asking TTR to refund the course  fees or transfer Mr M to another  
course.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9453222