K821x#15Complaint
Miss H has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  increased  the interest, fees 
and charges to her overdraft when she was in financial  difficulty.
Background 
Miss H complained that Lloyds had unfairly  charged her overdraft fees when shed 
previously had difficulties.  One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought  that 
Lloyds hadnt  treated  her fairly  and reasonably and needed to rework Miss Hs account  to 
remove the effect of all the interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from  
September 2015. 
Lloyds partially accepted  our adjudicators view. It agreed to pay compensation to Miss H but 
wanted to close  her account.  Miss H was unhappy  with what  Lloyds  proposed to do with her 
account going forward and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help for me to start by explaining that as both Lloyds and Miss H have agreed on 
when Lloyds started acting unfairly towards Miss H by continuing to charge overdraft fees, I 
dont need to look at this part of the complaint. I simply need  to decide whether Lloyds has 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint.   
Having carefully considered everything, I think that Lloyds needs to do a bit more to put 
things right for Miss H. Im satisfied that the amount of interest,  fees and charges Lloyds 
proposes to refund is fair and reasonable. However,  Lloyds says it will close  Miss Hs 
account completely  at the conclusion of this complaint. 
I can understand why Lloyds might not want to provide Miss H with an overdraft in 
circumstances where  all parties agree that an overdraft had previously  become  
unsustainable for Miss H. However, I dont think that this is, in itself, means it is reasonable 
for Lloyds  to close Miss Hs account entirely  especially as Miss H has confirmed she 
wishes to use the account and Lloyds  can provide  the account without also providing an 
overdraft.  
So at this stage  Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to close      
Miss Hs account as part of the settlement to this complaint. And as this is the case  Lloyds 
should instead settle Miss Hs complaint in the way I set out below.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  H.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and 
charges applied to it from September 2015  onwards  are removed.
Ref: DRN91532672AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Miss H to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Miss Hs 
credit file, it should backdate this to September 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss H along  with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Hs credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC should 
put thing right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9153267