K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited declined  his pet 
insurance claim due to incorrect details in the vet notes. My references to Red Sands include 
its agents.
background
Mr E took out pet insurance for his dog, with Red Sands as the insurer, on 8 May 2018.  He 
had a previous  policy  with Red Sands which had been cancelled in March  2018.
On 29 May 2018 Mr E took his dog to the vet as he was lame after a fall. The vet diagnosed  
bone cancer. Sadly, soon after Mr E made the difficult decision for his dog to be put to sleep.
Red Sands  wouldnt  pay the claim. The vet notes of 29 May said Mr Es dog had been lame  
for 10 days.  Red Sands said that meant the lameness, a sign of the illness,  had started 
within 14 days of the start of the policy, which the policy didnt cover.
Mr E said the vet notes  were wrong.  The vet had misheard him as his dog had been unwell 
for 2 days  before  he went to the vet, not 10 days.  The vet practice director wrote to 
Red Sands  that the vet who treated Mr E's dog no longer  worked at the practice and the 
practice director supported Mr Es claim.
Red Sands  still declined the claim. It would only consider  evidence  from the treating vet who 
recorded the consultation notes.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim. 
Mr E disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He asked that we contact the treating 
vet. Our investigator explained that Mr E would need  to contact  the vet and we would take 
any new evidence into account.
Weve not received further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E but I dont uphold this complaint on the evidence  I have.
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined the claim.
The policy is clear there's  no cover  for an accident, injury or illness  that first showed clinical  
signs within 14 days of the policy start date.  No cover for that situation  is standard in most,  if 
not all, pet insurance policies. 
The vet notes made at the 29 May consultation say:
lame 10 days after falling  in the park, seemed to initially  improve but now worse.  Grade  4/5 
lameness RF in consult.  swollen carpus resents  flexion of joint but subtle, due to severity of 
lameness advised  xray. Osteosarcoma evident on xray
Ref: DRN93561382So on the vet notes made at the time the lameness and cancer  were  first seen  within the first 
14 days of the policy.
Mr E strongly disputes the vet notes are correct and Ive seen the points hes made.  The vet 
practice director has sent two letters to Red Sands, the first says: 
 
please note that the lameness started following an apparent  fall on Sunday  27 May and 
not 10 days previously  as stated in the clinical notes.
The second  letter says:
I have been informed by Mr E that (dogs  name) was presented  for lameness 2 days after 
an apparent fall and not 10 days as stated in our clinical  records.
The veterinary surgeon who examined  (dogs name) and recorded the history no longer 
works for (the vet practice). I have  no reason  not to believe  Mr Es account of the 
consultation and suspect that the vet involved either misheard Mr E or recorded the history 
incorrectly.
I am unable  to verify events further.
I accept the vet practice director says he has no reason not to believe Mr E's account.  But 
he can only report what Mr E has told him. The vet practice director  cant  know  what  was 
said at the consultation as he wasnt there.
The important point  is that Red Sands can fairly  rely on the treating vet notes as being  an 
accurate record of the consultation unless the vet who made the notes says the information  
is incorrect and explains why.
Mr E says the treating vet is contactable. Its for Mr E either to contact the vet or ask the vet 
practice to do so to see if she can further  provide evidence. 
At the time of making my decision Ive not received any new evidence  from the treating vet. 
If Mr E is able to provide  further evidence from her he should send it to Red Sands and it 
should reassess the claim on the new evidence.
On the evidence I have Red Sands can fairly and reasonably rely on the consultation  notes 
to say Mr Es dogs illness first showed clinical signs within 14 days of the policy  start date 
and decline  the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint on the evidence I have.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9356138