K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained about seven logbook loans which were provided to him by Mobile 
Money Limited (Mobile  Money). He says these  loans  were unfairly expensive and he had 
difficulty paying them back.
background
Mr E was provided with an initial loan of £450  in July 2012. The loan had a 12 month  term 
but it was when Mr E was provided in a top-up, which resulted in a new loan agreement 
being signed and funds  from the new loan being  used  to settle the balance  on the previous 
one. After loan two was settled,  Mobile  Money provided Mr E with a further five loans which  
meant that Mr E was given a total of seven log book loans between  July 2013 and January 
2018. Mr Es borrowing  history is as follows: 
Loan Amount Date taken Settled Consolidation Term Repayment
1 £450 July 2013 November 2013 None 12 months £94.00
2 £300 (£714)* November 2013 April 2014 Loan  1 18 months £119.88
3 £600 June 2014 December 2014 None 6 months £177.00
4 £350 January 2015 July 2015 None 12 months £74.99
5 £550 September 2015 July 2016 None 12 months £71.30
6 £600 July 2016 August 2017 None 12 months £71.34
7 £600 January 2018 Outstanding None 6 months £94.56
*includes funds  borrowed  to repay previous  loan
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Es complaint  and concluded Mr E shouldnt have been 
provided with the loans  from loan three  onwards. Mobile Money  disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. As a result,  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Mobile Money gave  Mr E his first two loans in the period up to the end of March 2014. 
During this time it needed a standard licence from the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT), in order 
to carry out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
Ref: DRN94956272(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce  clear  guidance  on the test for irresponsible  
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible  lending (ILG).
Ref: DRN94956273So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Es case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Ref: DRN94956274Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
Ref: DRN94956275while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Ref: DRN94956276Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. The ILG was amended  to reflect any 
changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive  and an additional  requirement  on a 
lender to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in 
force until regulation of Consumer Credit providers  passed to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
Ref: DRN94956277(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
By the time of loan two and for all of Mr Es subsequent loans (1 April 2014  onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)
Mobile Money gave  Mr E loans three to seven after regulation of Consumer Credit  Licensees 
had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. 
Mobile Money initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit before  it went  
on to successfully apply  for authorisation as a consumer credit  provider. Mobile  Moneys 
interim permission to provide consumer credit  and its eventual authorisation to do so meant 
that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Mobile Money. 
CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after 
a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following 
extracts, the FCAs CONC  rules  specifically note and refer back  to sections  of the OFTs  
Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Ref: DRN94956278Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
Ref: DRN94956279(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Es loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
Ref: DRN949562710(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ref: DRN949562711CONC and the ILG set out the regulatory framework that authorised/regulated consumer 
credit providers have  to adhere  to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms.  And as 
Ive explained,  Im also required to take into account  any other guidance,  standards, relevant 
codes of practice, and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
Ref: DRN949562712We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Mobile Money, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr E would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been  able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Mobile Money ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing  Mr Es 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Mobile Money didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr E and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Mobile Money, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr E would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable  way?
Regulations in place throughout the period when Mobile  Money was lending to Mr E required 
it to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Mr E could afford  to repay  his loans in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or 
affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Mobile Money had to think 
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Mr E. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for Mobile Money to think only 
about the likelihood that it would get its money  back without considering the impact  of 
repayment on Mr E himself. The loans being  secured on Mr Es car didnt alter, lessen or 
dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
Ref: DRN949562713or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Mobile  Moneys  checks reasonable and proportionate?
For loan one, Mobile Money appears  to have  gone through an income and expenditure 
questionnaire with Mr E. Mobile Money  says the income and expenditure information  
showed that Mr E had a monthly disposable  income  of £173.64  which meant that he could 
easily afford the monthly payments  of £94. It appears to have  relied on similar  checks  being 
carried out on the remaining loans. 
Ive thought about what Mobile Money has said. But both the ILG and CONC make it clear 
that the extent  to which a lenders checks are proportionate  will depend on the type of credit, 
the associated  cost and the risks to the borrower bearing in mind  their financial situation. 
Equally the rules and guidance also suggest  that when income or expenditure is taken into 
account, checks are less likely to be proportionate  where the lender relies  solely  on a 
statement of those matters made  by the borrower. 
So bearing all of this in mind, in my view, a less detailed affordability assessment, without 
the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
circumstances where  the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial 
situation is stable  and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  may be less stable (for example where  
they are having  trouble accessing  mainstream  credit), they are expected  to make repayment 
for a more  extended  period of time and there  is the potential for the borrower losing their car 
if they run into difficulty making payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability  
assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree  of verification, in 
order for it to be fair, reasonable  and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN949562714So given the circumstances in this case,  where  Mr E was provided  with expensive high-
interest loans and there was the possibility  of him losing his car, I wouldve expected Mobile 
Money to have verified the expenditure information  provided as well as his income. Mobile 
Money might have thought that a light touch check was proportionate because  Mr Es car 
provided security. But I dont think that this was enough to constitute  a borrower focused 
assessment. And I dont  see how this considers the impact of the repayments  on Mr E. 
As Mobile  Money failed to take steps  to verify  Mr Es monthly  expenditure even though he 
kept coming back for further expensive loans,  I dont think the checks  it carried out before 
providing any of these loans were  fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Mr Es loans have indicated to Mobile Money that he would 
have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for the earlier loans wouldve 
involved verifying Mr Es normal monthly outgoings  and regular financial commitments. And 
as the lending continued, I wouldve expected Mobile Money  to have found out more about 
why Mr E kept having to come back for further  loans  despite what  was being  declared 
indicating he had no need for such expensive  borrowing.
As Mobile  Money didnt carry out proportionate  checks for these loans, I cant say for sure 
what proportionate checks would most  likely have shown. So I need to decide  whether it is 
more likely than not that fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks  wouldve told 
Mobile Money that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mr E. To help us understand for 
ourselves what Mobile Money would more likely than not have discovered if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Es loans, we asked Mr E to provide us with 
information on his financial circumstances. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Mr Es financial 
circumstances before loans one and two, would have shown that hed previously had 
payment problems. For example, he had historic defaults. That said,  I think that these 
historic problems meant that Mobile  Money ought  to have  sought information such  as bank 
statements to verify  Mr Es actual financial position.  And as Mr E hasnt been  able to provide 
me with this information  either, I cant safely say that proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have shown that he wasnt in a position to be able to repay loans one and two. As 
this is the case,  Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about loans one and two.  
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Mobile Money ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Es indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
I dont think that it is necessary for me to recreate affordability checks for loans three  to 
seven. I say this because in addition to assessing  the affordability of each individual  loan 
provided to Mr E by Mobile Money, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall 
pattern of lending. 
Im mindful here that the relevant rules  and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier part of 
this decision make it clear that a lender  shouldnt  continue lending  where  the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And I think by loan three, Mobile Money ought  fairly and 
Ref: DRN949562715reasonably to have  realised that Mr Es loans  had become unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. 
The factors  that lead me to conclude  that Mobile Money ought to have realised the loans 
from loan three were unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
Mr E struggled  to make some of his payments to loan two on time;
the defaults on Mr Es credit file; 
the increasing regularity Mr E was returning for further funds; 
Mobile Moneys own contact notes suggest that it reasonably to have been  aware  
that Mr E may well have been struggling  financially.
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Mr E being in a difficult  financial position. And 
bearing in mind Mobile Moneys obligation to monitor Mr Es repayment record  and offer 
assistance should it appear that he mightve  been experiencing financial difficulties, I think 
that Mobile Money shouldve offered assistance and/or a product that would allow him to 
sustainably repay  what  he owed. But instead of doing this, Mobile Money  instead  kept 
lending prolonging his use of this expensive credit for an extended period of time. 
Indeed Mr E started  out with a loan requiring 12 monthly payments of around £94 in July 
2013. Yet by the time of the final loan  approaching some four and a half years later - Mr E 
was borrowing for the seventh time.  He owed Mobile Money  for most of this period and even  
then he was still required to make similar repayments for a further six months. So he clearly 
wasnt freeing himself from his reliance  on expensive credit. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Mobile Money  ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
realised that the loans  from loans three  onwards were unsustainable  or otherwise harmful  for 
Mr E and were unfairly and excessively increasing his overall indebtedness. And so it 
shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr E.   
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr E in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Mobile  Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in 
some other way.  
Did Mr E lose out as a result of Mobile  Moneys shortcomings in relation to these loans?
I think that Mr E did suffer adverse consequences  as a result  of Mobile Money  unfairly giving 
him these  loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness to Mobile 
Money by allowing him to take expensive credit  over an extended period of time. These 
loans were very expensive. Ive already  spoken  about the impact this had on his finances. 
And I think that the overall cost of these loans unfairly prolonged what  was an adverse and 
precarious financial position  for Mr E.
Secondly, the sheer number of these high-cost loans is likely to have  had implications for   
Mr Es ability  to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of these loans on       
Ref: DRN949562716Mr Es credit  file the less likely  Mr E was able to rehabilitate his finances and regain access  
to mainstream credit.  This is especially the case when bearing in mind his other affordability 
issues.
In my view, Mobile Money giving Mr E such a large  number of loans  (which  it shouldnt have 
done) over such an extended period  of time at a rate normally reserved for short- term 
borrowing, placed him in a position  where he was unfairly trapped  into taking further  loans 
from Mobile Money as no-one else, other than similar providers, would lend to him. 
I think that, in these circumstances, Mr E had little choice other than to keep turning to 
Mobile Money and other similar providers  for further  loans,  because he had little other  real 
choice bearing  in mind  everything that had gone on previously. And, in my view,  Mobile 
Money took advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I think that Mr E lost out because Mobile 
Money unfairly gave  him these loans, which it ought to have realised were unsustainable,  
harmful and unaffordable for him. 
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
twelve of this decision, I find that:
Mobile Money  didnt  complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr E to 
satisfy itself that he was able to repay  his logbook loans in a sustainable way;
I dont have  enough to say that reasonable and proportionate  checks would more 
likely than not have  shown Mobile Money  that Mr E would  not have been able to 
repay loans one and two in a sustainable way; 
the overall  pattern of lending ought fairly and reasonably to have alerted Mobile 
Money to the fact that the loans from loans three onwards  were  unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr E and that they were unfairly  and excessively increasing his 
overall indebtedness;
 
Mobile Money  didnt  act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in some other way;
Mr E lost out as a result of having been  provided  with these loans.  
These findings lead me to conclude that Mobile  Money unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr E with loans three to seven and that he lost out as a result. So Mobile Money needs to 
put things right for Mr E.
fair compensation  what  Mobile Money needs to do to put things right  for Mr E
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Mobile Money  putting  
Mr E in the position  hed now be in if he hadnt  been  given these loans.
Ref: DRN949562717But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr E 
was given the loans in question and he used the funds   albeit in reality  what  hes effectively  
done is repaid  previous loans with them.  So, in these circumstances, I cant undo  whats  
already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr E back  in the position he would be 
in if he hadnt  been given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Mobile Money to put things right 
in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr E shouldnt have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Mobile  Money continually  lending to Mr E left him 
in a position where he wasnt able to properly settle  his debt. This was because  Mr E kept 
having to find additional funds to pay the (increasing) interest and charges on his Mobile 
Money loans. And then he had to borrow again  from Mobile  Money as making  the payments 
was preventing him from meeting  his other  commitments, which  meant he incurred more 
interest and charges when he did this. So to start with, I think that Mobile  Money should 
refund the interest and charges Mr E paid on these loans.
Im also mindful that Mr E lost the use of the funds  he used to pay the interest and charges, 
I now think that Mobile Money needs  to refund to him. As Mr E lost the use of these funds, 
I think that he should be compensated for this. We normally  ask a business  to pay 8% 
simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use of funds because  its actions resulted in 
something having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think that awarding  8% per year simple interest, on the interest 
and charges that were paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Mobile Money should pay Mr E 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges  
he paid from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles Mr Es complaint.
Mr Es credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mr Es complaint about  loans three to seven because  I think  that what  had 
happened by this stage ought fairly  and reasonably to have led Mobile  Money to realise that 
it was increasing Mr Es indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some  
other way. I explained that there  were  two main adverse  consequences  of Mobile Money  
having given Mr E so many loans. Firstly it caused  him to pay an excessive amount of 
interest. And Ive already  explained how Mr E should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the sheer number of loans involved and the extended period of time is 
likely to have had implications for Mr Es ability to access  mainstream  credit. The greater the 
presence of these loans  on Mr Es credit file the less likely  Mr E was able to rehabilitate his 
Ref: DRN949562718finances and regain  access to mainstream credit. And I think  my direction in relation to       
Mr Es credit  file needs to reflect  this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Es credit  history 
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans on Mr Es credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many high-cost loans appearing on     
Mr Es credit  file is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting Mr E going  forwards. In 
these circumstances,  I think  that its fair and reasonable for Mobile Money to remove all 
reference to loans three to seven from Mr Es credit  file, as the number of loans in itself is 
adverse information.  
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Mr Es complaint for Mobile Money  to put things right in the following way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges (including document  fees) Mr E paid on 
loans three to six.
remove all interest,  fees and charges applied to loan seven from the outset. The 
payments Mr E has made to loan seven  should  be deducted from the new starting 
balance. Mobile  Money should treat any payments made once the new starting 
balance has been cleared  as overpayments.  And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr E.
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest,  fees, charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid by Mr E to the date of settlement;
remove all reference to loans  three  to seven from Mr Es credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mobile  Money  to take off tax from this interest.  Mobile 
Money must  give Mr E a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint about  Mobile  Money 
Limited and telling it to pay Mr E compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9495627