K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs G or HSBC  sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject 
my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN96815802copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs G says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs G bought the policy  when she took out a loan in 1999.  The loan included an amount  to pay for the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Due to the length of time since this sale took place,  HSBC are unable to provide copies of most of the 
paperwork used as part of this sale. Theyve provided  example documents which  Ive considered 
alongside all of the other evidence. 
In situations like this, Ive to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened at the time of 
sale.
Ive noted that Mrs Gs representative has raised a concern with our adjudicator relying on the 
example documents.  I understand their concerns, but the alternative is that they arent  considered 
and that means  theres less evidence to consider. 
The example documents are just one of the many things Ive considered when coming to my decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Mrs Gs complaint because:
Ive considered the example documents that HSBC have  said are reflective of what  Mrs G 
would have  seen at the time of sale alongside  what we know  more generally about how 
HSBC sold this type of PPI policy in meetings around this time.
I think  that its more likely  than not that HSBC followed its normal sales process  during this 
sale and made Mrs G aware that PPI was optional before getting  her consent  to take it out.
Ive considered that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs G. This places more responsibility 
on them  as it means that not only did they have to give Mrs G good enough information about  
the PPI, but they also had to take reasonable  steps before making a suitable recommendation 
based on Mrs Gs circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time I think that the recommendation to 
take PPI was suitable  and the policy was right for Mrs G. 
Ive also considered the information that Mrs G was given about  the policy.  Based on the 
example documents,  the cost of the policy was shown  including  the amount of the premium,  
the interest payable on the premium  and the total cost. So I think  Mrs G would have 
understood how much  the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy  for its full term. 
Ref: DRN96815803Given how long the policy could  have  paid out for, if Mrs G made  a successful claim  she 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs G wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont know if HSBC  thought  about this when  it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs G. But I havent seen anything to suggest she thought  
shed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for her  or that 
better information about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
Its possible  HSBC didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mrs G doesnt 
appear to have been  affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mrs Gs comments, including  what shes said about  her existing means  of 
making her repayments if she was unwell  and unable to work, or if she was made unemployed. 
Very little information has been  provided about another policy that Mrs G had, but this PPI policy  
could have paid out for the duration of the loan for an accident or sickness claim - which is longer  than 
the 12 months that Mrs Gs existing  policy could have paid out for.       So, based on what  Ive seen,  
on balance, I still think that she had a need for PPI and these points  dont change my decision. If Mrs 
G wants to, she now has a further opportunity to provide  additional details about  the separate  policy  
she had.
Ive also noted Mrs Gs representatives comments about  another decision made by another 
ombudsman. It would  be inappropriate  for me to comment on another  ombudsmans decision as our 
Service considers  each  case on its own merits. Based  on everything Ive seen,  Im not persuaded that 
this particular PPI policy was mis-sold
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, currently dont intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
If Mrs G or HSBC UK Bank Plc have  anything further to add, they should do so before 
25 February 2019 and I will then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681580