K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Specialist Motor  
Finance Limited  (SMF) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr A took receipt of a used car in October 2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF. At the point of supply the car was about seven years  old and 
had covered 56,500 miles.
In April 2018 he contacted SMF  and told them a bolt had seized in the cylinder head and this 
would complicate a repair  that was required to replace  a fuel injector. He said hed been 
quoted £3,000 to complete the work.
So SMF arranged for an independent inspection of the car the next month. The engineer  
said that the fault would not have been  present when the car was supplied to Mr A. He 
suggested that if that were the case there would have been  excessive  exhaust  smoke and 
Mr A may have had difficulty  starting the car. He went on to explain that he thought the 
problem was most likely  to have occurred about three months  earlier.  He said that fuel 
injectors could fail at any time and he wasnt persuaded that there  was evidence the fault 
was present or developing  when the car was supplied to Mr A.
So SMF rejected Mr As complaint and he referred  it to this service.
The adjudicator didnt think a reasonable person would expect to pay £3,000  to repair  a car 
after theyd only completed a limited mileage. He thought it was reasonable to suggest that 
the repair was so expensive because the bolt had seized. He noted that records suggested 
the bolt was found seized  when the garage  tried to repair the car and he thought it was very 
likely this bolt had been seized when the car was supplied to Mr A. He didnt think the 
independent engineer had reported  on this issue; hed concentrated his findings on the faulty  
fuel injector but the adjudicator thought the source  of the excessive cost to be the seized 
bolt. He therefore thought there was evidence that the car was not of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied  to Mr A.
He noted that Mr A had stopped making  payments towards his car in March 2017  and he 
didnt think it would  be fair to ask SMF to refund any of the instalments hed paid previously 
as he thought it was clear  Mr A had had fair use of the car up to that point. But he did think 
SMF should  settle  the outstanding balance; remove the agreement  from Mr As credit file; 
refund his deposit and pay him £300  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
their actions had caused  him.
SMF didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. They didnt think  a seized bolt would make a car 
of unsatisfactory  quality  and they stressed that the independent engineer had said there was 
no fault at the point  of supply. They explained that Mr A had missed  payments towards  his 
agreement prior to experiencing any problems with the car and that they had to report his 
payment history accurately. So they didnt  think they should remove  any reference to the 
agreement from his credit file. They therefore  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN95525302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint SMF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. The car here 
was around seven years old and had travelled 56,500 miles so I think  Id expect a few 
problems due to wear and tear but I dont think this would extend  to a reasonable person 
expecting not to be able to strip the engine without significant cost.
Here I can see that the independent inspector has explained that he is not persuaded the 
fault with the fuel injector was present at the point of supply. Whilst I dont dispute that, I 
think the problem  here has been  the excessive cost of getting to the fuel injector so it can be 
repaired. Its clear thats excessive because a bolt is seized  and I think  thats unusual and 
that a reasonable person  would not expect  a cylinder head bolt to be seized on a car of this 
age and mileage.
Mr A reported the issue with the fuel injectors  in April 2018. That was about  six months  after 
he took charge  of the vehicle although it seems the problem happened in the previous  
month. The relevant  legislation says:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the bolt was seized when the repair was attempted  I think its most likely it didnt seize on 
that day but more  likely that it seized previously  before  the car was supplied to Mr A or at 
best within the first six months of ownership. And in those circumstances the relevant 
legislation would encourage  me to decide that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN95525303Whilst it wasnt the seized  bolt that stopped the car working it was the seized bolt that 
stopped the car being fixed  as it was prohibitively  expensive. I agree with the adjudicator that 
this suggests  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as it was supplied in an unsatisfactory 
condition  one that prevented economical repair.
The car has since been repossessed as Mr A has refused  to make payments towards it. I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Mr A to make  any further payments  as I agree the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. SMF should  also ensure the finance agreement  is cancelled 
and Id agree that they should pay some compensation to Mr A. He will clearly  have  been  
distressed by this issue and in the circumstances  I think  £300 is sufficient. 
Id also agree that they should  remove any adverse  reports theyve made to Mr As credit file 
in relation to this agreement. But they need  not remove any adverse reports  they made prior 
to March 2018 when the car appears to have been  running well.
I note that Mr A also complained about the way in which the repossession  took place. I can 
understand that this is a distressing situation but I dont think  SMF did anything  wrong.  The 
terms of the finance  agreement  allowed them to repossess the car if there  were  persistent 
late payments and that was the case here  albeit for understandable reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Specialist  Motor Finance 
Limited to:
terminate the agreement with nothing more  to pay
refund  Mr As deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit  file in relation to 
this issue although any reports made  prior to March  2018  can remain
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9552530