K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc provided poor service and didnt offer him enough 
for his written-off car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Gs car was stolen in April 2019. When it was recovered, it was a total loss, so Covea 
offered Mr G £16,482 for it. He said the car was worth around £20,000, as that was the sum 
he thought was needed to replace  it. Mr G got a note from his local dealership garage in 
support of his claim. It said he could expect to pay up to £22,000  for a similar car to his. 
Mr G was also unhappy with Coveas poor communication and with not being given a 
courtesy car. Covea  offered him £100  for poor service  but wouldnt increase the valuation.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint. She said the policy  only offered a 
courtesy car when a consumers own car was being  repaired  at one of Coveas approved 
repairers. In her view,  Coveas offer of compensation for service issues was reasonable. The 
investigator noted that Mr Gs policy was limited to covering the market  value price of his car. 
She said market value is established  using  national motor trade guide valuations, not the 
advertised prices of similar  cars.  She checked the guide prices and noted that Covea had 
offered Mr G the top valuation given in them. So she thought it had acted reasonably.  
Mr G said the guides  must be wrong,  as hed spent  hours searching  the internet and there 
were no similar cars available  for the price Covea had offered. He said there would be 
numerous cars similar to his to choose  from if Covea increased  its offer by £2,000.  
Mr G also said hed paid the premium for a car that was insured for £18,295  but now wasnt 
getting what hed paid for.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Mr G says the lack of a car has affected his business and his social  life. I think it must have 
been very difficult for Mr G since  his car was lost, and I sympathise  with his situation.  But the 
policy doesnt provide a courtesy car unless a consumers car is repairable and an approved 
repairer is used. So I dont think Covea did anything wrong in this respect. 
I can see that Coveas  communication with Mr G could have been better. But it accepted  that 
- and also that there was undue delay in providing him with a valuation. I think  Covea made  
a reasonable offer to put these matters  right by paying Mr G £100 compensation.
We have a long-standing approach to vehicle  valuation.  We think the fairest  way to find a 
price thats  most likely to reflect a cars  market value is to use the figures  set out in the 
national trade guides.  Those figures are based  on extensive research of likely  selling  prices,  
nationwide, by independent businesses with expertise in the subject. 
Insurers generally apply  our approach when valuing cars, as Covea has done  in this case. 
And it offered Mr G the highest  valuation it found, based on the details  of his particular car. I 
think that was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN98832682We think advertised prices for cars are generally unreliable. There can be great variation 
between advertised  prices for similar cars. And as asking prices are usually open to 
negotiation, theyre  usually  inflated. The dealership garage said it would advertise cars 
similar to Mr Gs car for up to £22,000. Mr G told us his research showed an abundance  of 
cars similar to his on sale for around £18,482  and its very likely  that those prices will still 
have been negotiable. I think this shows the difficulty in relying on advertised prices.
Mr Gs Statement  of Insurance  shows the value of his car as £18,295. Ive listened  to a call 
where this was discussed between him and one of Coveas advisors. As the advisor pointed 
out, Mr G doesnt have an agreed value policy. Such  policies arent common and cost more 
than market value  policies. Mr G will have been  asked to estimate the value of his car when 
he took the policy out in July 2018.  So the sum stated  is only his view of what  the car was 
worth at the time. The premium Mr G paid wasnt based on the estimate, but on numerous 
risk factors.  It has no bearing on the cars market value at the time of its loss. 
I appreciate that Mr G is very upset about Covea not offering him more  for his car. But as I 
dont think Covea has acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883268