K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy at how Allianz Insurance Plc has administered his motor  insurance  policy. 
He believes that hes suffered  loss as a result  of how the insurer  handled and recorded 
claims and through  its decision  to decline  to renew his policy.
background 
This is a dispute involving a lot of transactions and exchanges between  the parties and 
about how Mr S is unhappy  with the various actions taken by Allianz. The parties  are very 
familiar with the history of their dispute  and I wont seek to recount the full details of their 
exchanges here. But I will summarise  the key issues  as I see them  both here and in the 
following section.
Mr S concerns centre  around a claim that was under consideration for an accident which he 
said was the fault of a third party. Allianz  declined to offer him a renewal  of his insurance. 
This was due to his history of claims and the, then, still unresolved latest claim. I understand, 
however, that before  the deadline  for the renewal  the claim was resolved as non-fault 
which meant that Allianz was then able to offer a new insurance policy  before the old one 
expired. Technically this was a new policy as the old one had not been  renewed.
Mr S felt that the decision  to decline to renew his previous policy  was wrong  and could have 
negative consequences  for him when applying for insurance in future. He was also unhappy 
with the premium he was charged for the new policy.  He felt that it was unfairly high having 
regard to his history of claims  which were  recorded  as non-fault  meaning that he shouldnt 
be seen as such an expensive risk to insure.
He felt that the latest claim had been handled poorly. He explained that hed gone  to a lot of 
trouble to obtain video footage of the incident  to prove that he wasnt  at fault and to allow  
Allianz to pursue the other  driver  for any repair costs. Mr S felt that Allianz had made a 
number of internal  errors when dealing with him that had caused him upset and 
inconvenience that he should be compensated for. He also felt that had Allianz taken the 
right approach then it would have been able to pay for his vehicle repairs yet still recover 
them from the other party allowing this latest  claim to be paid but also recorded as non-fault  
like previous ones.  I understand that when  Allianz  said that it couldnt pursue the third party 
Mr S agreed to pay for the repairs himself  to prevent it being a fault claim.
Mr S was also unhappy that a document was sent to him, and the broker, which  showed  him 
as having a previous driving conviction. He said that was false and felt that he should also 
be compensated for the error.
Mr S also challenged  the records which Allianz held of his accidents  which  he felt should be 
removed and not taken account  of when setting his premiums.  He felt that failure to do so 
meant that hed likely been charged too much for his insurance over a number  of years.
In response to his complaints Allianz agreed  that it had made some errors. It explained that 
the reference to a driving conviction  was a mistake and had only arisen due to a default  
setting on a document that had been produced. They clarified that it had no impact on any 
aspect of Mr S policy or premium and that it hadnt been disclosed to any person or 
organisation in a way that would prejudice Mr S. It apologised for its mistake. Our adjudicator  
felt that this was an acceptable outcome and that no specific compensation was required.
Ref: DRN95574732Allianz also apologised for its delays and some confusion in how it had managed  the 
evidence provided  by Mr S in the form of cctv video.  It accepted that it had been  at fault in 
how it had communicated  with Mr S. As a result it offered him £150 in compensation and a 
repayment of the costs  hed incurred to get a copy of the cctv footage.  When our adjudicator 
looked into this he agreed that the level of compensation was fair.
But Allianz didnt  accept that its approach generally  to the claim was wrong. It explained that 
the evidence available  meant  that it had very little chance of successfully pursuing the third 
party. Our adjudicator  also thought that Allianz had dealt with this fairly.  He explained that its 
for the insurer to make  its own decision about whether to pursue a third party and that, in 
any event, its decision not to here seemed  justified  by the evidence  available.
In regard to the decision  to decline the renewal of the policy  Allianz explained that it had 
done so as Mr S profile of claims meant that he fell outside of its underwriting  rules  meaning 
that it couldnt offer insurance. It explained  that it was only when the outstanding claim was 
effectively withdrawn and recorded as a non-fault loss that Mr S profile was again within its 
parameters. This had allowed  it to issue a new policy  in time before the old policy expired. 
The adjudicator had investigated how Allianz set its premiums in such cases and was 
satisfied that it had followed its underwriting guidelines appropriately. He also looked  at how 
the new policy had been priced  and, while he wasnt able to disclose commercially  sensitive 
information that Allianz had sent us, he was happy that this was also managed  fairly  by 
Allianz and that the premium set was appropriate.
But during  its own review following our investigation  Allianz realised that Mr S no claims 
discount records had been recorded wrongly, it said, by the broker. This meant that 
premiums had previously been  set higher  than they should have been. As a result  it 
identified that it owed Mr S a refund  of over £900. I understand that the sum has since been 
paid direct to Mr S. While  it didnt form part of his complaint Im pleased to see that Allianz  
has taken this action  which  seems right in all the circumstances.
During our investigation Allianz explained  that it hadnt cancelled  Mr S insurance but simply 
declined to renew and it sought  to reassure Mr S that it hadnt  recorded this fact on any 
external database  for other insurers  to see. At some point it suggested that as a result Mr S 
wouldnt need to disclose this to any new insurer, which  was one of his concerns.
Two views were issued by adjudicators which largely included the same details but some 
time apart and after some  negotiations  between  the parties. What remained a point of 
contention was the issue of providing Mr S something formal that would settle his concerns 
about the impact  that the decision not to renew  his policy would  have.
After the second  view Mr S told us that he still felt that he was entitled  to more compensation 
than had been offered but that he would agree to settle his complaint on receipt of a letter  
from Allianz which explained the reason for the decision, that there  was no formal  record 
with external organisations and that he wouldnt need to disclose the fact to future  insurers. 
That was in line with what had been intimated by Allianz previously.
In the event, Allianz issued a letter which explained that it was down to Mr S to answer 
questions from future  insurers accurately so couldnt  give him the confirmation he required. 
As a result Mr S refused  to accept the view wed issued and instead required  that an 
ombudsman consider his complaint. He pointed out a new concern that Allianz had made  a 
mistake with the number  of years no claim discount he now had that had put him to further  
trouble. He feels that he should be entitled  to £500 compensation for the poor handling of his 
Ref: DRN95574733claim and data and over £2000 for the loss he may suffer in future insurance premiums  by 
disclosing that his insurance renewal was declined. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the view of our adjudicators  
and dont intend to uphold  this complaint.  While Ive reconsidered the whole of this complaint 
to come to my conclusion  I will start by dealing with the main issue  that remained in dispute 
and that led to this case  being  passed to me for a decision.
Mr S wanted  a letter from Allianz  giving him a waiver from having  to declare some  
information to any new insurer. While  Allianz mistakenly suggested that was possible at one 
point, its in fact never an option. No other party, including the insurer or this service, can 
release a consumer  from their legal and contractual responsibilities when  dealing  with future 
insurers. Any consumer is personally responsible  for the accuracy  of the answers  given 
when entering  into a contract  with another party. Its unfortunate that one department  within 
Allianz suggested that would be possible before  the underwriting department came to issue 
the letter and said what it did. It was right to do that as the earlier suggestion  was misguided.
Ive thought about whether that error  justifies  some  form of compensation but Im satisfied 
that it doesnt. It was a single error  in a proposal for the content of a future  letter. Mr S hasnt 
suffered any loss as a result other than the disappointment  of not getting what he wanted.
But Im most persuaded that it doesnt  require any form of compensation as the simple  
reality is that theres no reason why Mr S should be afforded any relief  from declaring the 
true facts  of his insurance history. While he clearly disagrees, Mr S is wrong to assert  that 
Allianz had made a mistake to decline to renew  his insurance. They acted fairly and in line 
with their underwriting approach  due to the still open claim and previous history of accidents. 
Its not possible to surmise that they should have concluded the open  claim sufficiently 
earlier to have it resolved  before renewal consideration. And the idea of loss that might arise 
from having to disclose the dismissal  is entirely  theoretical.
The reality  is that Mr S has a record of accidents  which are taken account of by insurers.  
That he thinks they shouldnt count against him is immaterial to whether the insurers  he 
seeks to engage  with choose  to rate those issues as risks. That is their choice and they are 
free to make it. Its the same freedom  to operate within a commercial environment  which  
means that the price that Allianz chose to charge  for the new insurance policy  is one that we 
wont, and cant,  interfere with. Im satisfied that Allianz applied its pricing model  fairly  in 
Mr S case  and that he wasnt singled out in any way. Ultimately he has the choice of who he 
buys insurance from and is entitled to shop around  elsewhere if he thinks  that Allianz are 
charging more than he wants to pay. 
And similarly that commercial discretion is applied by other insurers  who may or may not 
take into account issues like the one he experienced when his renewal  was declined. I 
understand Mr S uses a broker and part of the brokers role is to explain their clients 
circumstances and agree premium prices with an insurer.
And its also correct that all records of losses, even those  reported merely for information 
which dont result in claims,  are recorded on industry databases, specifically CUE.
Ref: DRN95574734I also disagree with Mr S assertion that he should  get more  compensation for how Allianz 
handled his claim  and administered his policy. I think that the £150  already paid by Allianz is 
appropriate for the trouble  and upset he experienced, added to the fact that it has repaid the 
additional fees he incurred for obtaining the cctv evidence on a different format. And I agree 
that no additional compensation is appropriate for the single incorrect  record  of a driving 
conviction on an internal document. 
I also agree  with our adjudicator that Allianz  did nothing wrong when deciding not to pursue 
a claim against the third party  for the latest accident. An insurer reserves the right to make 
decisions about whether it will pursue  third parties  to recover  any claim it might pay out. That 
right is contained within  the general  conditions applying to Mr S policy. Im satisfied from 
everything Ive seen that Allianz acted appropriately  when  it interpreted  the evidence to 
decide on what its reasonable  prospects were  for recovering any claim that Mr S might 
choose to make. It remained up to Mr S whether he wanted to utilise his insurance to claim 
for the repairs.
Finally, Allianz was not at fault when  it provided  information about the years of Mr S no 
claims discount. Insurers have different approaches to no claims discounts. Some  only allow  
a maximum of 5 years  to be taken  into account in their pricing  model. Allianz allows  10 
years. The records  Allianz keeps  about  Mr S years  of no claims is their own record for their 
own purpose. Their  interest is only about the years, up to ten, which  qualify for the discount 
in their pricing model. They  correctly reported  the years of non-claims with which they 
credited Mr S. If Mr S wants information  about  his full insurance  record  and historic claims 
then he needs  to maintain that information himself and, if necessary, provide that to any new 
insurer. As far as Allianz is concerned he qualified for their full ten year discount.  So that is 
what they reported when asked.
In summary  Im satisfied  that Allianz  has dealt fairly  with Mr S complaints  throughout and 
that the compensation paid, and refund  issued,  is an appropriate  conclusion  to this dispute.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9557473