K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS),  trading as Audi 
Finance, mis-sold a finance agreement to him for a car.
background
Mr W took receipt of a used car in June 2015. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. The car was less than three  years old and had completed  about 
11,500 miles at the point of supply.
Mr W says he didnt want to take out finance  on the car but was persuaded to do so because  
the salesman  told him thered be two years free servicing. He was upset at the end of the 
deal to be presented  with a bill to pay the final balloon payment so he could take ownership  
of the car. He thought  hed be the owner once he finished paying his monthly instalments 
and he says he wasnt informed about the final balloon  payment.
He complained to VWFS  but they didnt think theyd done anything  wrong.  They provided a 
copy of the signed finance agreement within which the details of the monthly payments and 
the balloon payment were included. But they did agree to remove  the adverse  records  theyd 
made to Mr Ws credit  file in relation to missing  the balloon payment and a default being 
raised, as they accepted they had been  prepared to hold proceedings whilst considering his 
complaint.
So Mr W referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion.  He 
wasnt persuaded there was enough  evidence that Mr W had been mis-sold the agreement.  
He noted the finance  agreement had been signed  by him to confirm  he understood its 
contents and that the need for a final balloon payment  had been  clearly set out. He didnt 
think it was for this service to comment on the discussions Mr W had with the salesman 
about the free servicing.
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint VWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN90538082Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented to Mr W. If it was, and if the misrepresentation led Mr W to enter into an 
agreement he would  not otherwise have entered into, I would think VWFS needed to take 
some further  action.
But here I am not persuaded there  is enough  evidence to suggest  the finance  agreement 
was misrepresented. I understand Mr Ws testimony that he wasnt  told about the balloon  
payment but thats countered by the signed  finance agreement in which  the balloon payment 
is clearly set out and by the signed  pre contract  explanation checklist in which  Mr W has 
explained the payments have been explained  to him. The balloon payment information isnt 
hidden in the small print: its on the front page and whilst I understand that finance 
documents can be wordy  and complex  I dont think its unreasonable of VWFS  to expect 
Mr W to have read the payment details.
Mr W says he was misled  into signing up for a finance agreement by an inducement of free 
servicing. The servicing isnt something  VWFS are financing so its not something this 
service can consider. But I can consider the dealerships  negotiations  with Mr W when setting 
up the finance as they were doing this as agents of VWFS. However,  Ive not been  provided 
with evidence that servicing wasnt  provided so it would not be reasonable  to suggest there 
was a misrepresentation.  
In those circumstances Im afraid I cant agree that theres sufficient evidence this agreement  
was mis-sold to Mr W.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053808