K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about Covea Insurance  plcs handling of a claim under their 
home insurance policy after their property  was damaged by ingress  of water.
background
In February 2016,  Mr and Mrs Ds suffered damage from water coming in to their property. 
They made a claim under  their policy. Covea accepted the claim for internal damage but 
said that before it could  start dealing with this, Mr and Mrs D would have  to complete 
external repairs.
Mr and Mrs D completed  the external repairs by July 2016.  Covea then arranged  for them to 
move to alternative accommodation  (AA) while it set about drying the property. However, 
Mr and Mrs D became  unhappy at the handling of their claim. They  complained to Covea. It 
issued a final response letter in November 2016 offering £100 compensation.
The property was declared dry in November 2016 and repair  work was able to begin. 
However, Mr and Mrs D again became unhappy at the handling of their claim. They  again  
complained to Covea.  It issued another final response letter  in March 2017  offering  a further 
£100 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs D referred  their complaint  on the handling of the claim to us. The ombudsman 
eventually issued a final decision  in October  2018,  dealing with the issues up until 
March 2017. The ombudsman upheld the complaint and said that Covea should increase the 
total compensation payable to Mr and Mrs D to £1,500.
In the meantime, after March 2017, Covea continued to deal with the claim. The repair  work  
was eventually completed in September 2017 and Mr and Mrs D were able to return to their 
property. However, they then complained  about the way the claim had been handled since 
March 2017. They said this had spoiled a seven-week holiday in Australia they had 
embarked on in April 2017. They furthermore said that on their return from that holiday,  
Covea had repeatedly mis-managed  their AA arrangements.
Covea acknowledged  it hadnt provided  as good  a service as it should  have done and 
offered £700 compensation.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  at Coveas offer. They referred their complaint to us. They felt 
they should be entitled to compensation of £3,500.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He acknowledged 
there had been  failings  by Covea but considered its offer of £700  compensation to be 
adequate.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings. They said not only had Coveas poor 
claims handling spoiled their holiday but they had been re-housed in AA a long way from 
their family and friends  for ten months  longer  than should have been necessary, during 
which time they had been deprived of a social life. They also said that on moving back into 
the property, they had to give it a deep clean because Coveas contractors hadnt done this. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN94854272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The ombudsmans decision in October 2018  dealt  with matters up until March 2017.  In this 
decision, I am considering only matters since March 2017. Mr and Mrs D make  reference to 
the extensive delay in resolving their claim. Much of the delay occurred before March 2017.  I 
cant take account of that in this decision.
I can see that in March 2017, the loss adjuster thought the repair work would take 
approximately two months to complete. In the event, it took over six months. This was partly  
due to further work which was required,  including electrical work, which  only became 
apparent during the restoration.  This is not unusual in a claim of this nature.  However,  most 
of the delay appears to be the fault of Covea, in particular while it was in dispute  with its 
contractors over liability for costs. I accept  that this unnecessary delay will have  caused  
frustration for Mr and Mrs D.
Mr and Mrs D say that the delay meant that the work was still ongoing  when they were away 
in Australia and this consequently  spoiled their holiday. It is unfortunate that the repair  work 
coincided with Mr and Mrs Ds holiday. However, given how things stood as at March 2017, 
I dont think Covea could  reasonably have  been expected to have completed all the repair  
work before Mr and Mrs D went away the following month. If Mr and Mrs D found that their 
enjoyment of the holiday  was marred by the fact the claim  was ongoing,  I think this would 
have been the case regardless of how Covea  had handled the case since March 2017. 
I therefore dont  consider  I can reasonably  award compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs D have also complained about  the arrangement of their AA. They  say it left them 
too far from their home and that there  was poor communication.
In March 2017, Mr and Mrs D were in accommodation which  was within  13 miles of their 
home. On returning from their holiday, they made  it known that they disliked the 
accommodation. The rent had been paid until the end of May 2017 and so Covea asked 
them to remain in the AA until that time,  which I think was reasonable. Then,  after putting 
Mr and Mrs D up in a hotel for a few days, Covea arranged for them to move  to a holiday 
cottage within seven  miles  of their home, where  they remained  until September  2017.  The 
lease on that property then expired and they needed  to move to another property for 
approximately three weeks before they were able to return  to their home.
I appreciate that the AA was not ideal for Mr and Mrs D but they live in a rural area and 
Covea cant be held responsible for the fact a suitable property wasnt  available  nearer to 
their home. Nonetheless, Im sure they would have liked to return  to their home  as soon as 
possible and the delay in resolving the claim would have caused  them  extra distress and 
inconvenience due to them being  in AA. Furthermore, there was poor communication  from 
Covea with regard  to the AA situation when their lease was due to expire  in September 2017 
and I consider this would have caused  some  anxiety to Mr and Mrs D.
I would have expected that the contractors would  have  cleaned the property once  the repairs 
had been completed. I consider that having  to clean it themselves would have therefore 
caused Mr and Mrs D more trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN94854273I therefore consider  that Covea was at fault in respect of its handling of the claim. However, 
after taking everything  into account,  I am satisfied that its offer of £700 compensation is fair. 
It is in line with what I would have likely awarded had it not made  such an offer. I therefore 
consider that Covea  doesnt need to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9485427