K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card she took 
out in 2002. The card was branded with the name of a major retailer  at the time and the 
credit facility was provided  by a high street bank. But a company called Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  is responsible for answering Mrs Hs complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in January 2019,  setting out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  I did this because of the specific nature of the case  
and the testimony  wed received about what happened. And I asked both parties  to provide 
any further submissions or information  to me within one month.  
my findings
Ive comprehensively  reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  not had any 
responses from the parties  so its clear neither wants to send in any new information or 
arguments. That being the case,  theres  no reason for me to change the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs H would  have  owed  when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added. It should remove the PPI premiums  added,  as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums.  It should  also remove  any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs H made a 
successful claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the claim from 
the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8%.
D.FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN98869712my final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I direct Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN98869713summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a store card she took out in 
2002. The card was branded with the name of a major retailer at the time and the credit facility  was 
provided by a high street bank. But a company called  Financial  Insurance Company Limited  is 
responsible for answering  Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
The store card was taken  out in the shop and obtained by filling out an application leaflet, most 
probably at the counter. PPI was added on to the card and Mrs H says she doesnt  recall agreeing to 
it or having the PPI explained. She says she didnt want this type of cover.
Our adjudicator has assessed  this complaint and already  provided a view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs H disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im considering upholding  Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive looked specifically at the circumstances  of this particular case  and considered carefully what  both 
parties have  said. I was also sent an actual copy of the store card application form Mrs H used to get 
the card and PPI back in 2004.
FICL says this was a non-advised sale and it was therefore Mrs Hs responsibility to decide  whether  
or not PPI was something she wanted to have. But this sale took place in a store  setting and it seems 
to me that the store assistant put two crosses (i.e. an x) at the points where  they wanted  Mrs H to 
sign the application form.
Understandably, one of these was at the bottom of the form.  But the other was at the point where PPI 
was being offered and I dont think the store assistant had any business in recommending that Mrs H 
should sign at this point on the form. 
Mrs H says there was an incentive  to have the store card that day which meant she would get 10% off 
her purchases. So I think Mrs H would have wanted to get the card, but thought she needed  to sign in 
both places, as directed,  to get it. And even if the x was put there as a result of a discussion,  no 
advice or direction should have  been  given because the store assistant was almost certainly  not 
qualified or trained to make  such a recommendation.
Given the individual aspects of this particular case and the specific testimony of Mrs H, I dont 
therefore currently think  that FICL got Mrs Hs true consent on this occasion. 
Because of this, I dont need to consider the other  aspects of the case. Those selling these  types of 
policy were  required to get the consent of the consumer. From what Ive seen so far, FICL didnt do 
this properly and so Im thinking about upholding  the complaint.
Ref: DRN98869714my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.   I will consider any further evidence either party  wishes to 
provide before 8 February  2019, before  I make my final decision.
Ref: DRN9886971