K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  their mortgage. For ease, Ill refer to the business  as 
Bank of Scotland in the rest of this decision.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage through Bank of Scotland.  At the same time PPI 
was added to their mortgage  account. The policy covered Mr P only.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P
didnt agree with the adjudicator so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
Mr P said he was entitled to an indefinite amount of contractual sick pay, so they didnt need  
the insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, based on whats available.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Bank of Scotland  had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs P that they had a choice about  taking 
out PPI. The bank had to get their consent to PPI being added. Mr and Mrs P said they didnt 
recall PPI being discussed and it was added without their knowledge. 
Ive seen the mortgage application they completed back in 1998. They both signed 
separately to say they would like to take advantage of PPI. Mr P then signed  a separate  PPI 
application form that showed only he was covered  under  the policy.  It set out the amount  of 
cover and the monthly cost of the policy. This makes  me think  that probably PPI was 
discussed with them at the time and they chose to take it. I can understand why they may 
not remember it that way now, after so much  time.
Bank of Scotland  says it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. So it had to check  it was 
right for them. Although  only Mr P was covered under the policy, Ive taken into account    
Mrs Ps circumstances too when looking to see if the policy appeared  suitable  for them.  
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances,  I cant see that the policy wasnt right for 
them. Ill explain why.
Mr P was eligible  to take out the policy. I cant see that it was inappropriate for the 
cover to be taken out in his name  only.
Mr P said he wouldve got an indefinite amount of sick pay from his employer if he 
was unable to work  through accident or sickness. He said he would ask his employer 
to confirm he was contractually entitled to this. We havent received anything  from 
Ref: DRN98293142Mr Ps employer  about this. Based on what Ive seen, and considering  the nature of 
Mr Ps work, I think it unlikely that he wouldve been eligible to be paid indefinitely if 
he was unable to work.  The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. It wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits Mr P wouldve got. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  mention having  any savings. So, I think  the PPI couldve 
provided them with valuable protection, to protect their home if Mr P wasnt  working. 
I cant see that Mr P was affected by any of the main policy limitations or exclusions. 
So, as it seems he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy  offered, I cant see 
theyve lost out because of not being given  clearer information about  these things.
The policy appeared affordable at £25.30 per month for £500 per month of mortgage  
repayment cover. They didnt  have  to pay interest on the monthly PPI premium and it 
couldve been cancelled  at any time if they no longer wanted the policy without them  
losing out. I think  Mr and Mrs P wouldve understood what they were paying for PPI 
because the costs and benefits  were set out in the separate PPI application Mr P 
signed.
Though its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve given Mr and Mrs P clear information 
about the PPI, I dont think this would have put them off deciding to buy it. So, I dont think 
they have lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland couldve done better.
In all the circumstances, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829314