K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that repairs Close  Brothers Limited  (CBL) carried  out on his car were  
unsatisfactory. He would like to reject the car.
background
Mr R says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement  with CBL in October 2017. He says he 
brought a complaint to our service as there were issues with the car as soon  as he got it.
He says although he wanted  to reject the car he accepted the investigators view that it was 
fair to allow CBL to carry out repairs.
He says he isnt happy with the way the repairs have  been carried out.  He says he cant 
open one of the doors, one window doesnt shut properly,  one door doesnt  align properly, 
the new door card doesnt fit properly, the speaker  on the driver  door is broken, the weather 
strip on the driver door side is missing,  the bell housing is broken and finally  there is water 
ingress on the driver  door side.
He adds that the significant delay in doing  the repairs has caused  father  damage.
CBL said the supplying dealership carried out some  repairs  but there were  still some 
problems. As the relationship had broken down between Mr R and the supplying dealership 
CBL covered  the cost of repairs  at a garage  of Mr Rs choice.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint. She found although Mr R had the right to 
reject the car if a repair  had failed he had chosen  to have further repair  work carried out 
instead. And as the time taken to complete the repairs was with a garage of Mr Rs choice 
she didnt feel CBL could  be held responsible for any delay in this being  done.
CBL accepted this view but Mr R didnt.
Mr R made  a number of points .He said he asked to reject the car not to have further  repairs  
carried out. And the garage he chose only inspected  not repaired the car.  He said he would 
accept a payment  of £20,000 if CBL would  take the car back. He felt this was fair given all 
the problems he had had with the car for which he had paid a £12,500  deposit.
Finally he said he still had water  coming in the door and cant get out of the car on the 
drivers side. Also the window sill doesnt work.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She found Mr R agreed 
to further repair work. And he provided  a diagnostic and then a quote for the work.   She  
noted Mr Rs frustration  that he now wanted to reject the car but didnt feel it was fair to allow 
rejection after repairs had been  agreed.
She felt once Mr Rs relationship with the supplying  garage broke down CBL  took all 
necessary steps  to ensure the repairs could be completed by allowing Mr R to chose  a 
garage of his choice  to do the work.  She  confirmed  with CBL that Mr R had agreed to 
repairs. And had provided a quote for the repair work.
Mr R didnt accept this second view. He said he had agreed to repairs being carried  out but 
only as he felt he had no option. He said due to delays with the supplying  dealership  the 
Ref: DRN98155602problems with water ingress  had worsened.  Mr R said the repairs  hadnt been carried out so 
he wanted them to start from scratch with the repairs 
Our investigator pointed  out that Mr R had continued  to use the car for over a year. She said 
there was no evidence that the repairs had failed but just there was still some further work to 
do.
As Mr R didnt  agree with our investigator. And felt he should  have been allowed to reject  the 
car when  he put in his first complaint it was agreed  to put his complaint forward for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about this and I do understand that. He obviously feels the first complaint 
he put to us should have  allowed  him to reject the car but didnt. 
I should make it clear to Mr R that I cant go back over that decision. I can only look at the 
actions that were agreed as a result  of that complaint  to see if they have been carried  out or 
not.
As I understand it an agreed list of repairs  were carried out by the supplying  dealership  .But 
as a result  of this work there remained several  issues. These were the drivers side window 
didnt open or close properly,  the drivers door side handle and lock didnt  work  correctly, 
water was coming into the car and a weather strip was missing from the door.
In its final response letter  CBL said it spoke to the supplying dealership who suggested as 
window actuator might need to be fitted to sort the window alignment  issue,  a new cable to 
rectify the locking mechanism and a support bar for the door to return to its normal  shape. A 
new weather strip had been fitted  but may have been removed or replaced when Mr R was 
wrapping the car. CBL said as most of these issues related to areas  that had previously 
been worked on it agreed to cover the cost of repairs with the exception  of the weather strip.
This indicates to me that the repairs werent  carried out either correctly or complete on this 
first attempt.
This is further supported by the garage of Mr Rs choice that then inspected  the car with 
CBLs agreement as the relationship with the supplying dealership and Mr R had broken 
down.
The third party garage confirmed most repairs  for which CBL was responsible  for had been  
completed to an acceptable standard but repairs were still required to the window, door and 
brake pads  at an estimate of £557.12  which CBL agreed to pay.
The main  issue seems  not to be that the first repairs werent successful or complete but 
whether Mr R agreed to further repairs or not. CBL says he did, that the car was booked  in 
for repair on 29 April 2019 but the garage was unable  to contact Mr R. CBL says at this point 
Mr R said he wanted to reject the car but as the parts had been ordered and repair agreed it 
could not then allow rejection of the car.
Ref: DRN98155603Mr R has accepted he did agree to repairs.  He says he felt under pressure to do so. I am not 
sure why that was. I havent seen any evidence of that from the information I have.
CBL has provided us with comprehensive contact notes. From these its clear to me that 
CBL took responsibility  for the problems. The notes support their view that Mr R only said he 
wanted to reject the car once  a date had been agreed for repairs to be completed and parts 
ordered. From the notes  I can see that the repairs were due to take place on 29 April 2019. 
But on 11 April 2019 Mr R told CBL he wanted to reject the car.
Given Mr Rs complaint  followed  on from a previous complaint to us where he wanted  to 
reject the car he was that cars can be rejected on certain grounds. So I have concluded that 
as he obtained  a quote for the work  and didnt  raise wanting to reject the car that he agreed 
to the second  lot of repairs. I think Mr R simply changed his mind. And whilst I can 
appreciate why he might have done so I dont  think it would be reasonable to allow rejection 
once he had agreed to repairs  and parts had been sourced.
As I understand it the repairs  still havent  been carried  out but CBL is still willing to cover  the 
cost of the repairs that it agreed to. I leave  it to Mr R as to whether he wishes  to go ahead as 
previously agreed.
my final decision
my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
 
.
Ref: DRN9815560