K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  has delayed  establishing  liability  following 
an accident she had in her car. This has resulted in her paying the excess and medical 
costs. And because she didnt have legal  expenses cover, solicitors were needed to pursue  
the case but there was confusion over whether they were being used on a no-win-no-fee  
basis.  
Mrs L is being assisted  in her complaint by Mr L, her husband.  
background
Mrs L was involved in an accident in September 2017. A complaint was previously made to 
our service  about the delays in UKI establishing liability. UKI had offered £175, but Mrs L 
wasnt happy with that. Our investigator  didnt  think UKI had acted unfairly  and found the 
offer fair. That outcome  was accepted  at the time. 
In December 2018, Mrs L brought another complaint to us, again about  the delays in this 
matter being dealt with and the costs she had incurred because  of it. Further,  there had been 
concerns about  whether the solicitors were acting  on a no-win-no-fee basis.  As UKI hadnt 
had a chance to look into those concerns, we notified  it of the complaint (we generally cant 
look into a complaint until a business  has had a chance to investigate first). UKI didnt think it 
had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt  think it had done anything wrong either. He explained he had 
considered matters since the last complaint. As UKI felt the third party was liable for 
accident, but the third-party insurer wasnt responding, UKI started  legal proceedings. And 
he was satisfied that UKI had established  the basis on which the solicitors  were acting. He 
also explained that when a claim is open,  costs will be incurred until an agreement  is 
reached. Overall,  he didnt find UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr L feels very strongly that UKI hasnt  progressed this claim as it should.  He said it has 
caused delays  and his wife has become very distressed by this and wants  compensation 
paid. 
Since the matter  was brought  to us, I understand the third-party insurer has now accepted 
liability, and Mrs Ls costs  have been reimbursed and the claim settled.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr and Mrs L feel that UKI should pay compensation  for the way this claim has 
been handled. But I would only award  compensation if I had found UKI had done something 
wrong, not for the natural time it might take for a claim to be settled. 
In March 2018, despite UKI contacting the third-party insurer  about its belief its insured was 
liable, it had received no response. It sent it a final letter about the claim before starting legal 
proceedings. I note that at the same time Mr L was told of the position and that UKI might  
have to litigate.  UKI is not responsible for how quickly, or if at all, the third-party  insurer  takes 
to respond. 
Ref: DRN91092152So I disagree that UKI has delayed in establishing liability, it seems  to me that it established 
well before then that the third-party  was liable. It was only because  the third-party  insurer  
wasnt responding that matters took as long as they did to get to that stage. 
It wasnt until April 2018 that the third-party  insurer finally responded. And it didnt agree its 
insured was liable; it felt Mrs L was. As no agreement could be reached the only avenue left 
for UKI was to take the matter to court. It therefore handed the claim over to solicitors.  This 
is a course of action  I would expect it to take in such circumstances. 
From that point UKI was no longer running the claim, that was the solicitors. So it was for the 
solicitors to ensure  Mrs L was kept up to date and to progress matters accordingly. Litigation  
can take time but if Mrs L doesnt think the solicitors progressed her case as they should,  
that is a matter for her to take up with the solicitors and/or their professional regulatory body; 
it isnt a matter for which UKI is responsible. 
I note there  was some confusion over whether the solicitors were  no-win-no-fee. When  Mr L 
contacted UKI about this, it did get clarification.  But by that time,  Mr and Mrs L had lost 
confidence in the solicitors  and decided to employ  their own. That is a decision they were 
entitled to make, but I dont find UKI did anything wrong (again it was the solicitors  
responsibility to ensure  it communicated clearly).  
It is unfortunate that despite the third-party  insured being found liable for the accident in 
court, the third-party insurance company  didnt  then quickly  settle  the claim. When  a claim is 
open, as this one was, its usual for a policyholder  to have to pay excess and other 
associated costs. Indeed excess is payable regardless  of who is fault for an accident  it is 
an uninsured loss. But it wouldnt be fair to hold UKI liable for any delays by the third-party 
insurer in settling this matter.
I am pleased  the third-party insurer finally agreed  liability and Mrs Ls claim settled. I note 
there was an error in who the settlement cheque was made payable to. I hope that is now 
sorted, but if it isnt, as I understand the cheque  came  from the third-party insurer,  Mrs L will 
need to take that up with it.
Overall, I dont  find that UKI delayed matters or handled this claim poorly.  It progressed  
matters as I would  expect it to when the third-party insurer  wasnt co-operating. And any 
delays by the solicitors  or the third-party insurer arent matters  its responsible  for. I therefore  
make no award of compensation against UKI. Now the claim is settled I hope Mrs L can start 
putting this experience behind her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9109215