K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about Nationwide Building  Societys  failure to manage  the process of 
changing the direct debit  for paying off his credit card, from an existing payment bank to a 
different bank.
background
Mr P phoned  Nationwide on 20 September 2018 to change  the payment bank, three days  
before his next direct debit was due. He was told that the change  would take effect from the 
following months payment. But he later found  no payment had actually been taken for 
September at all. 
Mr P spoke to one of Nationwides  agents on 8 October and paid the missed amount 
manually. Nationwide offered to set up the direct debit for his new payment bank again, but 
he said he would speak  to that bank himself  first.
In response to Mr Ps complaint Nationwide said on 30 October that it had also received a 
request to cancel  Mr Ps direct debit on 25 September, which  it did and this prevented 
completion of that months payment. (It suggested  this was in some way caused  by the first 
payment bank.)  However it refunded him the late payment fee and interest.
Mr P referred the complaint to our service seeking  £500 compensation, as he was charged 
late payment fees and interest. We contacted Nationwide and it then apologised to Mr P on 
19 November that he should have been told on 20 September that the direct debit that 
month would  probably fail to be collected   and he would need to make a manual payment.  
It offered  him a further £50 and arranged to correct any impact to his credit file. 
Mr P told us he didnt think it was enough to recognise the calls and time hed spent dealing  
with the matter, because Nationwide  had given him the run around  and made him contact 
his bank to sort matters  out for no reason, which caused him anxiety. (The first payment 
bank had told Mr P on 19 November that it hadnt cancelled the direct debit instruction, and 
referred him back to Nationwide.)
One of our investigators  didnt think Mr Ps complaint should succeed. He noted that Mr P 
had made  a similar change to his direct  debit in August, but he made that change  two weeks  
before the due date. So he thought  the problem here had in part been  caused by Mr P 
attempting to change  the direct debit  so close to the due date.
The investigator said it was clear that Nationwide did make an error, but it had also taken 
actions to correct the financial  impact  on Mr P and offered compensation to make  up for it. 
This is what  this service would in any case have asked Nationwide to do. So he thought the 
£50 offered by Nationwide was reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator, he said mostly due to the number of times  Nationwide 
gave him incorrect information (5 separate occasions). This led him to contact both the 
previous and new payment bank for explanations. He was now looking for £100  
compensation rather than £50, so the investigator  agreed to see if Nationwide  was prepared  
to consider his counter-offer.  It wasnt  willing to pay more  than £50.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
Ref: DRN92721912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I emailed Mr P on 19 December. I explained  that it isn't our role to fine or "punish" a 
business for getting something wrong  - as businesses are regulated  by another body (the 
FCA) with powers to do this. But we do consider the impact of the business getting it wrong 
on the individual in each particular complaint.
The £50 Nationwide had offered was in recognition of the upset it caused Mr P: both by not 
explaining that he would need to make a 'one off credit card payment, and then not 
immediately realising that this is what caused  the problem when he first raised  it with them.  I 
said this was because  it sometimes takes a little while for a bank to investigate what's 
happened  or to better tailor  its investigation to the further issues the customer raised.  But 
once it had done this, Nationwide then reached what I considered was the right outcome
I said a bank (or this service) wouldnt automatically  add on a payment for distress and 
inconvenience of a certain amount on each  complaint, because  any assessment of this is 
specific to the circumstances of the person complaining. The ombudsman service  was also 
set up to resolve cases quickly and informally, where possible. I considered the amount 
Nationwide had already offered for the upset it caused was within  the range of awards  I 
might make. So it wasnt our approach to take existing offers  off the table to only make  a 
small adjustment to them, because  that isn't in the interests of resolving cases  informally.  
I agreed it was unfortunate that whilst Nationwide was looking into what  had gone wrong, 
which didn't take a particularly long time, Mr P made further calls to the two payment banks - 
and this frustrated  him further. But I considered the main point for me to take into account 
was that Nationwide did get to the right answer and then decided to compensate Mr P. So I 
wasnt minded to increase the amount of compensation it should now pay. 
Mr P confirmed he wanted me to make a final decision.  In summary, he is trying to recover 
the cost and time which he spent as a result  of contacting both the payment banks because 
Nationwide kept insisting it was their fault.  He also didnt agree that Nationwide did any 
reinvestigation of the complaint until contacted by our service. In fact it wouldnt believe him 
when he told it what the payment  banks had told him, and had it done  so, he wouldnt have 
had to raise the complaint. 
In Mr Ps view any layman would have done  the same to get to the truth of the matter.  He 
suspected there was malicious intent on the part of Nationwide and questioned why its 
systems allowed direct debit collections to fail in these circumstances  and didnt chase  him 
to make an urgent manual  payment.
Ive reconsidered  everything Mr P has said carefully, but Im not going to award a higher 
amount of compensation. The Financial Ombudsman Service  exists entirely because 
financial businesses dont  always get things right. There  isnt a fee to use us, unlike the 
potential costs of going to court, so we dont award  compensation because someone has 
had to go through the formal process of complaining rather  than an error being put right on 
the spot.
I dont of course dispute that it would have  been better for Mr P if Nationwide  had got its 
answer to his complaint right first time.  Moreover  it would have been  even  better if it had 
given him clearer information about the impact  of changing his direct debit so soon to the 
payment date when  he initially called. But as Mr P has referred to what  a layman would so, 
Ref: DRN92721913I have to say that many  people would not have wanted to take the risk of changing a direct 
debit so close to the payment date - for precisely  the reason that payment systems arent 
infallible, and staff cant always  predict how theyll behave.
It is doubly unfortunate if, as Mr P says,  he called into a branch in person  two weeks  before  
20 September to change  the direct debit   but Nationwide told him (not unreasonably  in my 
view) that it had a dedicated  phone line for making  these changes. Its unclear to me why 
Mr P left it a further two weeks to make the changes on the phone, if he already knew  he 
wanted to change the direct debit. He would have  known from the change hed already 
made the previous month, that it had at least worked  successfully when Nationwide  had this 
much notice. I think there was an element here of Mr P contributing to the consequences 
which followed, by only ringing Nationwide three days before the direct debit was due.
No-one is disputing that Nationwide  still got things wrong despite this. However  its not part 
of my role to criticise  Nationwides  systems, say how they should work  or what  safeguards 
should be in place when they do fail, as the ombudsman service considers  individual  
complaints rather than how a business  organises itself. But in any case  the issue  here (as 
Nationwide has admitted)  is more  one of human error and poor customer service given the 
limitations its systems may have (which I suspect  are the same  with many banks). 
I appreciate Nationwides poor explanation  in the call of 20 September  triggered  late 
payment and interest charges.  But banks  frequently do reimburse these charges if theyve 
found they are responsible, which Nationwide agreed to do. So I dont think  it matters  that 
Nationwide didnt give Mr P an opportunity  to make a manual payment before it charged him. 
Mr P indicates that he approached the other  banks after Nationwides letter  reimbursing his 
charges. So although I appreciate he was left in a frustrating position, he wouldnt have been 
speaking to the other banks in an attempt to recover a financial loss, which  I consider would 
have been more distressing.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in respect of the payment of £50 and corrections to Mr Ps credit  file, 
which were both brought about following the Financial Ombudsman Services involvement. 
Nationwide Building  Society must ensure that the £50 is paid and Mr Ps credit file is 
corrected, if it has not already done  so. I consider the sum of £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused in this case, and make no higher 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9272191