K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly  increased the agreed  interest  rate on his 
loan. 
background
In April 2019, Mr F took out a Property  Investment  Loan for £280,000 from Barclays. The 
loan was repayable in a single repayment at the end of five years,  with interest payable  
monthly. 
Shortly after the loan began, Barclays wrote  to Mr F. The letter said that his interest  
payments were being amended and would be £946 a month. In May, the bank wrote again  
to say the payments would be £978. 
Mr F queried  these amounts with his relationship manager. He said that the agreed interest 
rate was 3.3%  per annum. So monthly  interest should be £770. 
Barclays replied that the interest rate was 3.3% above the Bank of England (BoE)s base 
rate. Base rate was 0.75%.  So that brought the overall interest rate on the loan to 4.05%. It 
would therefore  cost around £957 per month to service interest,  the exact amount depending 
on the days in each month.  
Mr F complained. He said that he hadnt  been  told that the interest  rate was above  base  rate 
and this made the loan too expensive for him. 
Barclays didnt uphold  his complaint. They said the information theyd provided to Mr F was 
accurate, so they hadnt done  anything wrong. Mr F asked this service  to investigate. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She didnt think  Barclays  had done 
anything wrong  either. Mr F disagreed.  He still thought Barclays  hadnt  been clear. He said 
he would  never  have taken out the loan if hed realised that the interest rate was so high. He 
felt Barclays should  allow him to borrow  the money elsewhere and repay his loan without 
paying an early  repayment  fee.  
As Mr F didnt agree with our investigator,  the file has been  passed to me to reach  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr F but Im not going to uphold  it. Ill explain  my reasons below.
First, I realise  that it must have been  very distressing for Mr F to find that his loan was more  
expensive than hed thought. I understand his point that he might  have  made a different 
decision about the loan if hed realised  this. But I need to decide if Mr Fs disagreement with 
Barclays about the agreed  margin  on his loan was the result of Barclays  doing  something 
wrong. 
Ive looked carefully  at all the records and documentation from the time Mr F took out the 
loan to decide if Barclays provided  information  that was fair, clear and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN90073402The property loan was whats known as a non-advised  sale. So Barclays  didnt advise Mr F 
to take it. Rather,  they let him know the conditions on which they were prepared to lend. 
From the records, it seems that Mr F first spoke  to Barclays about a loan in December 2017. 
I dont have any meeting  notes. But Barclays emailed Mr F after that meeting and their 
proposal includes reference to an interest rate of 3.3%/Base . 
Barclays relationship  manager has told us that the loan margin  was discussed in the 
meeting and over the phone. Although  there are no notes/recordings of these conversations, 
I think its more likely than not that the margin would have been  discussed, as its a key part 
of any loan. And I think Mr F, as an experienced businessman, would have been able to ask 
questions if he wasnt clear. 
Its not unusual  to use the symbol/ to mean over, as Barclays did in this case. Nor is it 
unusual to abbreviate the BoE base  rate to base in an informal  email. In an initial  email,  it 
might have been more  helpful to spell things out in full, as 3.3%  over the BoE base rate at 
any time. But given  the context of a preliminary setting out of terms, when there had also 
been at least one meeting to discuss the proposal, and there was formal documentation  to 
come, I dont think the abbreviation  was misleading  of Barclays. I also note that Mr F was an 
experienced businessman and property developer. So I dont  think  it was unreasonable  of 
Barclays to think that he would understand the abbreviation, or would ask further  questions  if 
he didnt. 
Its common practice for business  loans to be on a floating rate basis,  where  floating 
means that the total interest  paid will vary according  to the underlying  index rate it is tied to  
in this case, the base rate. In such cases,  banks  often refer to the margin,  which  is the 
fixed percentage added to the index interest  rate. Although the margin stays the same, the 
amount payable will change if the underlying index rate changes. The alternative would be a 
fixed rate loan, where the bank guarantees that the agreed rate wont  change for the term of 
the loan. 
Next, Ive looked at the loan facility letter, which is the formal  document  setting out the terms 
and conditions of the lending contract.  This was headed, in large, bold font, Property  
Investment Loan (Fixed  or Floating Rate (Bank of England Base Rate) Key Terms . This 
shows that it was a standard document, covering both fixed  and floating  rate loans. It also 
makes clear  that the floating rate, if applicable,  is tied to the BoE base rate. Further down on 
the first page, it says:
Loan Type:
Floating rate basis term loan
Margin:
3.300 per cent per annum
Fixed rate period :
Not applicable
Interest Rate  Basis :
Floating Rate Basis,  under  which  the interest rate will never  be less than the margin.
I think this shows clearly  that this loan was to be floating rate, not fixed rate. I also consider it 
shows that 3.3% was the margin, rather than the total interest payable.  
Ref: DRN90073403After the Key Terms section of this agreement come the Terms  and Conditions.  These  
include definitions of Floating  Rate and Floating Rate Basis . Under Interest, it says: If 
the Floating Rate  basis applies, interest shall accrue at the rate per annum equal to the 
aggregate of (i) the margin and (ii) the Floating Rate. 
Im satisfied that this facility letter set out the interest  payable  in a way that was clear, fair to 
Mr F and not misleading. 
I do agree  with Mr F that Barclays two letters of April and May 2019 saying that the loan 
repayments were being  amended are rather confusing. They are clearly identical standard  
letters designed to cover several scenarios.  They both refer to repayments being  amended  
due to a recent  rate change, overpayment, interest  only period (capital repayment holiday) 
or a similar event. I dont think any of these  applied. The amount payable  each month  has 
varied, due to the number of days in the month.  But there has been no change in interest  
rate since  it began. 
Whilst I think these letters were unhelpful and shouldnt have been  sent,  I dont think they 
have made  any difference to whats happened  here.  Ive seen statements for the loan 
account. I can see Mr F has paid interest since the start of the loan at the rate set out clearly 
in the loan agreement.  The letters  make it sound  as though Barclays was changing 
something. This wasnt in fact the case.  But I dont think they affect Mr Fs complaint about  
the interest rate. 
When Mr F complained, he said he had written evidence that hed been  told the interest rate 
was 3.3%  and the monthly interest payment £770.  But Mr F hasnt provided  us with any 
evidence that shows this, in my opinion. 
In summary,  for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think Barclays  has treated Mr F unfairly.  
So I dont  think it would  be fair for me to direct them to waive their early  repayment fee as 
Mr F requests. Im not going  to ask Barclays to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007340