K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy at the amount BISL  Limited asked him to pay at his 2017 motor insurance  
renewal.
background
In 2014 Mr G took out a branded motor insurance  policy, which  was arranged and 
administered by BISL. At inception and at each  of the subsequent renewals,  BISL  
approached its panel  of underwriters for prices  for the policy and offered  Mr G the cheapest  
one available. BISL had the ability at this point to alter the policy premiums at this point.
Mr G renewed  the policy in 2015 and 2016. At the latter  renewal he has told us he paid 
£328.67 annual  premium. However, when the 2017 renewal offer was sent to him, it was for 
£539.25. Whilst BISL offered to discount this to £447.17, Mr G was still not happy  with the 
amount and moved his insurance  to another provider. Mr G noted at the time that when he 
sought insurance elsewhere  that other than the insurer he chose, he wasnt quoted  less than 
£420.
Mr G wasnt happy about the premium  he was quoted by BISL  and complained to both it and 
the underwriter.  BISL explained  that it is the panel of underwriters determines  the price  of a 
policy. It acknowledged that it cant always offer the most competitively priced policy,  
especially where others are offering new customer discounts. It also pointed out that a 
policyholder is under  no obligation to renew their insurance with it and, if they dont like the 
price offered, can seek insurance  elsewhere. It didnt consider it had done anything wrong in 
relation to Mr Gs policy. Mr G didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld.  
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and asked that an ombudsman  consider the complaint.  
Mr G said that it was evident that the insurance industry had, over the last year, been 
inflating renewal  prices. He also commented  that he believed that the underwriter for his 
policy holds a high percentage  of the market  and when this happens, an insurer can charge 
what it likes. He also considered that BISL was trying  to maximise the policy  cost and so 
both it and the underwriter  was in the wrong.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm that this service is an alternative dispute  resolution service that deals 
with individual  complaints. We dont regulate the insurance industry; the organisation that 
does that is the Financial  Conduct Authority. As such, Mr Gs concerns about the motor 
insurance market in general and prices being  inflated would be more  appropriately directed 
to that organisation rather than this service.  I will, however, consider Mr Gs individual  
complaint and circumstances.
As I have explained above, BISL is a broker; it doesnt decide how the premium  for the 
policy is set and what risk factors will be taken into account. That is the role of the 
underwriter. BISL  can adjust the premium, as it appears to have offered to do at the 2017 
renewal by discounting the premium.  However, it isnt responsible for determining the core 
price for the policy, which it appears,  is what  Mr G is primarily concerned  about.
Ref: DRN93552932BISL has also explained that there are a limited number of underwriters on its panel and as 
such, it cant always offer the most competitive  premium. That appears to have been the 
case here. Mr G has said that he considers that BISL attempted  to maximise  the price  of the 
policy. However, it appears to have  tried to assist Mr G by offering him a significant  discount 
on the premium the underwriter wanted.  Given this I cant agree that BISL  was trying to 
maximise the premium  Mr G paid.  
I would also comment that in offering a discounted  premium  to Mr G. BISL  is allowed to 
exercise its own commercial judgement as to how much such a discount should reasonably 
be. That judgement isnt something that this service would attempt to interfere with unless 
we considered it was being applied unfairly. I havent seen any evidence  that is the case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before 
27 March 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9355293