K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about a life insurance policy sold by a business Phoenix Life Limited  
(Phoenix) is now responsible for. He is unhappy  that he has paid in more than the policy  will 
pay out upon his death and he wants to be able to stop paying into the policy but keep it 
active and in place.
background
The policy was a non-linked whole of life plan which was offered solely  to members of the 
B & Q over sixties club, providing they were between the ages of 60 and 80. Mr C took the 
policy in July 1991. It initially had a sum assured of just over £1,000  for a premium of £12 
per month. It was written  into the policy that the original sum assured would increase by ten 
per cent over the first five years of the policy  whilst  the premiums remained  fixed to this day.
The policy was sold to Mr C on a non-advised basis.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view that enough information  had been  given to Mr C about  the policy for him to 
make an informed decision about it, which was all the selling business had to do given the 
policy was sold without  advice. 
He also felt that the policy documents that were given to Mr C at the time of the sale made  it 
clear there was no cash in value  of the policy and that the cover would cease if he stopped 
paying the premiums.  He therefore didnt think the policy was mis-sold.
Mr C didnt agree with the assessment.  So because  of this the complaint has been passed to 
me to review  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, I appreciate how aggrieved Mr C feels about  this policy. I can understand how 
disappointing it is to find the policy has more paid into it than it will eventually  pay out. But 
this in itself doesnt mean  it has been mis-sold. To determine this, and to ultimately uphold 
this complaint, I need to be sure that Mr C shouldnt have  been sold the policy because it 
didnt match his needs or objectives at the time of the sale.  Or that Mr C wasnt actually 
aware of what he was taking out.
The policy was sold without advice. This means  that when Mr C initially  took out the policy  a 
full suitability assessment  to ascertain  whether Mr C needed it wasnt  carried  out, nor did 
anyone assess Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances  to work out whether such a 
policy could have been of use to him at some  point in the future. Because  this policy was 
non-advised all the selling business has to do was to provide enough information to ensure 
that Mr C was in a positon to make a fully informed decision about whether to take out the 
policy or not.
Therefore, because of this, no business can be held responsible for giving poor advice about 
the policy and consequently mis-selling it because no advice was given. And in actual fact it 
Ref: DRN99819782was Mr C who had to make the decision about whether the policy  was what  he was looking 
for and whether he needed it.
I have also looked  at the information that was provided to Mr C to determine whether he was 
given full information about the policy.
I can see that in the terms and conditions of the policy it is clearly explained what  the policy 
is - that it will provide a tax free cash sum for the policy holders estate when  they died.
It is also clearly  stated  that if the policy holder  stops  paying the premiums the life cover will 
stop and that there is no cash in value at any time.  The terms and conditions also confirm 
that depending on how long the policy is in force the policyholder may pay in more in total 
premiums than the policy holders estate  would receive on death.
As well as this, the questions and answers part of this document  also clarifies what will 
happen if premiums  stop being paid into the policy and another document  also provided at 
the time of sale state that the policy holder can never cash  in the policy.
In light of this, I am satisfied that Mr C was given full information about the policy  and was 
made fully aware  at the time of taking it out of the full nature of the policy.
I therefore cant conclude  the policy has been mis -sold. Paying more  into it than will be paid 
out in the event of a claim is unfortunately sometimes just how these policies work. This 
doesnt make the policy wrong or mis-sold. And this was clearly  stated in the terms and 
conditions which were  given to Mr C at the time he took the policy out. So I am satisfied that 
he knew of this risk initially. I also cant ask Phoenix  to allow Mr C to stop paying  into the 
policy but still keep  it active  for him because it hasnt done  anything wrong and the 
contractual terms he signed up to dont allow for this to happen.
 my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9981978