K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt give a cooling-off period after they 
agreed to switch their mortgage to a new interest  rate product  meaning  they had to pay an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) when they moved to another  lender.
background
Mr and Mrs H used to have a mortgage with HSBC.  It was going onto the standard  variable 
rate so they applied online for a new fixed interest  rate on 6 September 2018.  HSBC issued 
a rate switch offer the same day. 
HSBC says it gave  Mr and Mrs H until 19 September  2018  in which  to accept the offer. But 
they both accepted online straightway  Mr H accepted the offer immediately, and Mrs H 
accepted separately, a few hours later on 6 September 2018. Once Mr and Mrs H had given 
their acceptance, HSBC applied the new rate to the mortgage account and sent a letter of 
confirmation in the post.  It also meant  their account became subject to an ERC.
Mr and Mrs H were also considering moving  house  because their domestic situation meant 
they needed something bigger. They had thought they would be able to take their HSBC  
mortgage and the new interest rate product with them if they moved. But shortly after they 
agreed to the new rate, they found  out that HSBCs lending criteria  meant  they would need 
to look elsewhere  for a mortgage to buy the property they wanted.
Believing they were  within a 14-day  cooling-off  period, Mr and Mrs H contacted  HSBC  to 
cancel the rate switch application,  so that they wouldnt have to pay an ERC when they 
moved. But HSBC said there wasnt a cooling-off period and the new rate was legally 
binding. When they moved house  and closed their HSBC mortgage account,  it charged 
Mr and Mrs H an extra £2,630 as an ERC.  
After complaining to HSBC, Mr and Mrs H then brought their complaint  to us. It was 
considered by one of our investigators and she explained that she didnt think there  were  
sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. The investigator didnt think HSBC was wrong  to 
charge the ERC. And she didnt therefore  find HSBC should  do anything more  to resolve the 
matter. 
Mr and Mrs H dont accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. It has therefore been referred to me so a decision can be issued. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for what are broadly the same  reasons.
Ive looked carefully  at what happened  here. This was an online application, so the 
documents were  generated straightaway,  giving Mr and Mrs H two weeks  to accept the offer. 
I know Mr H says he tends to spend  longer looking at the wording of documents  and takes 
his time before  proceeding.  On this occasion  though, HSBCs records  show he accepted the 
offer within a few minutes of it being made.  HSBC  couldnt apply the new interest  rate 
product until Mrs H also accepted, which she did that afternoon.  Once theyd both done so, 
they were bound by it  and could only come out of the rate if they paid an ERC.
Ref: DRN98729342I know Mr and Mrs H believed they could  rely on a cooling-off period should they change  
their mind   and that they started to look into details of getting a mortgage  on a new house 
within a few days of accepting the new rate. But there is no cooling-off period, and nothing  in 
the rules of mortgage  regulation requires  there  to be one for a rate switch. Nor do the rules 
say that there has to be a reflection period or that a switch can be unwound once accepted. 
And the law relating to online sales, which says there has to be a 14 day cooling-off period, 
doesnt apply  to mortgages either.
So theres no legal or regulatory requirement  for there to be a cooling-off  period or a chance  
to withdraw after acceptance.  Nothing  in the paperwork said there was one either. Indeed, 
the switching offer document  included the wording: 
You are not bound by the terms of this mortgage  rate switching offer document  until 
you have accepted it and we have  acknowledged  that your request has been 
successful.
I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong  in this case. It gave Mr and Mrs H a product 
they asked for. It didnt  give them advice, but set out the information they needed to make  up 
their own minds in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. Mr and Mrs H chose to switch 
mortgage product  without  the benefit of HSBCs advice,  and in doing so they took 
responsibility for making sure they read all the paperwork to ensure they understood the 
features of the product  they were selecting.  I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible if they 
didnt do so. I also cant hold HSBC responsible for Mr and Mrs Hs erroneous belief that 
there would be a cooling-off  period  when  it didnt do anything  to lead them  to have that 
belief.
When Mr and Mrs H chose to move  to a new property, which meant they couldnt  take their 
HSBC mortgage  with them, it charged an ERC as set out under the mortgage terms. For the 
reasons Ive given  above, I dont consider it appropriate to order  HSBC  to refund all, or part, 
of that ERC.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against HSBC  UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9872934