K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold  them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Yorkshire  in 2006. At around the same time they 
took out monthly-premium  MPPI. It only covered Mr R. The policy was free for the first six 
months. And then the monthly  premiums were initially about £26.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the compliant  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs R asked 
for the complaint to be transferred to an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr and Mrs R say that they didnt know about  the MPPI on their account  until their claims 
management company  checked for them. But I think that Mr and Mrs R knew  that the policy  
was optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen:
Mr and Mrs Rs signed mortgage  application.  I can see that there is a tick in the box 
declining further information about  MPPI;
 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage offer, dated a few days  later, which says that they dont have 
to take any insurance with Yorkshire; only have to have  buildings insurance; and have 
chosen not to take out MPPI;
An illustration of MPPI cover for Mr R dated  a few further days later; and 
Mr and Mrs Rs signed application for the policy incorporating the details shown on the 
illustration.
From the above I find it was clear to Mr and Mrs R that they didnt have to take out the 
policy. And, as it was added to their account,  Im satisfied that, although  they initially decided 
not to take it, they later changed  their minds and applied  for it. Because of the time that has 
passed I can understand why Mr and Mrs R no longer remember  all this.
Im not clear whether Yorkshire  recommend  Mr and Mrs R to take out the insurance.  It says 
it didnt and Mr and Mrs R cant remember. But, if Yorkshire did recommend the policy,  it had 
to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs. 
Ref: DRN96241872Knowing what I do about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time, I find that the MPPI was 
suitable because:
Mr R was eligible for the policy and wasnt adversely affected by any of its main  
restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting  someone who had a pre-existing 
medical condition;
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs R couldnt afford the MPPI. And as it 
was paid for monthly they could have  cancelled it at any time had they later found that it 
was unaffordable for them or that they no longer wanted it;
The policy was competitively priced  by reference to others available in the market  at the 
time and it had a reasonable  benefit;
Mr R says that he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer and, as he was 
working for a charity, he had no chance of being  made redundant. Mr and Mrs R also 
told us that they had equity in their property,  cars and, if absolutely necessary, could 
have had parental help towards  making  their mortgage repayments. So they say they 
didnt need insurance
I dont know why Mr R says that the nature  of his employment meant that he couldnt  be 
made redundant. And, as we explain on our website, we dont usually take into account  
possible family assistance because circumstances can change. With regard to the cars, 
it may have  been  inconvenient for these to be sold if they were required for Mr and 
Mrs Rs daily living. And realising some  of the equity in their home could have taken time 
and may not have  been possible. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have 
paid out £500 a month for up to 12 months. Leaving Mr Rs sick pay and his and Mrs Rs 
other assets available  to help pay their other expenses while Mr R wasnt  working.  So I 
think that the policy could have been  of use to Mr and Mrs R. And, in fact, Ive seen that 
Mr R did make a successful claim when he became unemployed a few months after 
taking out the insurance;
As Mr Rs salary  was almost four times Mrs Rs I dont find the fact that the MPPI only 
covered Mr R made it unsuitable for them.
Whether Yorkshire recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs R or not, it still had to give them 
clear, fair and not-misleading information  about  its terms and conditions so that they could 
make an informed decision whether they wanted it or not. Because of the time that has 
passed I dont  know what Yorkshire told Mr and Mrs R about the policy. But the illustration, 
to which  Ive referred earlier, set out the monthly benefit and premiums  and some  other  
details of the insurance. But it maybe  that Yorkshire didnt give Mr and Mrs R all the other 
details that it ought  to have. But as it appears that they wanted this type of cover  and Ive 
found that they had a need for it, I dont think that clearer information would have changed 
Mr and Mrs Rs mind and stopped them taking the insurance. This means  that they arent  
worse off because of anything that may have  been wrong in Yorkshires sales  process. So 
theres nothing I require Yorkshire  to put right.
Ref: DRN96241873my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9624187