K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about a duplicate transaction that appeared  on his Capital  One (Europe) plc 
credit card.
To settle  matters he wants  the duplicate transaction removed and compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
background
Mr R made  a transaction on his Capital One credit card for £66.99  in mid October  2018.  The 
next day he noticed the payment was showing  twice. He was worried because this could 
have taken him over his credit card limit.
Mr R complained to Capital One but it didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that there are 
occasions where payments can be duplicated on customers accounts. This can be due to a 
system error  or the terminal being used. But it reassured Mr R that the transaction had only 
been posted once to his statement.
Mr R was unhappy with Capital Ones response so he brought  his complaint to this service.  
When our adjudicator looked  into Mr Rs complaint she didnt recommend that his complaint 
should be upheld.
She thought  there was a system error which initially caused two payments to show as 
pending. But she was satisfied that hed only been  charged once. She also thought  Capital 
One had followed  the correct process  and in a reasonable timeframe so she didnt 
recommend payment of any compensation.
Although the duplicated  payment could have caused Mr R to exceed his credit limit, the 
adjudicator could see that this didnt happen because the pending payment dropped  off 
when it wasnt claimed by the merchant.
Mr R disagrees  with the adjudicators view so hes asked  for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says that Capital One should rectify problems with its systems.  And he says Capital One 
didnt investigate his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr R feels very strongly 
that hes been treated unfairly  by Capital One.  But Im afraid  I agree with the conclusion 
reached by our adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr R thinks Capital One should be required to fix errors with its systems but Im afraid we 
have no regulatory  role over businesses so we cant require a business  to change or fix its 
systems.
We resolve complaints  by customers about financial businesses by looking at what  we 
consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances looking at the impact  a mistake has 
had.
Based on the statements Ive seen Im satisfied that although two payments initially  showed 
as pending, Mr Rs credit card statement showed that only one payment for £69.99 was 
Ref: DRN95832312charged to his card. Mr R was understandably worried that the duplicate transaction  could 
cause him to exceed his credit limit. But Im satisfied this turned out not to be the case  and 
Mr R wasnt detrimentally  impacted by this.
Ive listened to the telephone calls Mr R made to Capital One. In the first call he was asked 
to wait seven days to see if the merchant  would claim the extra  payment or if it would 
automatically drop off. Capital One informed him that if the payment was still there after 
seven days, he should ring back  to raise a dispute,  which he did.
During the second call although the call handler explained she couldnt get through to 
disputes, she logged  the transaction as disputed.  And she told Mr R hed need to contact 
disputes within seven  days failing which his transaction  would no longer be treated  as 
disputed.
I realise Mr R thinks he shouldnt  have  needed  to phone again. But the call handler wasnt 
able to get through to the disputes team and she explained this to him. And Im satisfied 
that Mr Rs transaction  was logged as disputed in the mean-time. The call handler 
explained that no interest would be charged  on the disputed transaction  and it wouldnt be 
included in his minimum payments  either.  During  this time the pending payment fell away 
as the merchant never claimed it  so Im satisfied Mr R was only charged  once.
I appreciate Mr R made calls to Capital One and also wrote  to complain but I dont consider 
it appropriate to award  compensation because  I consider the inconvenience caused  to him 
was a minor  inconvenience of the sort we all face in our day to day lives and our dealings  
with other  people.
Im of the opinion Capital  One has treated Mr R fairly. And as Ive explained above, theres 
nothing to suggest Mr R has suffered any financial  loss. So it follows  that I wont be asking 
Capital One to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9583231