K820x#14complaint
Mr P and his representative are unhappy that Sabre Insurance Company Limited has 
declined a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ps car was stolen.  He reported it to the police and Sabre. And he gave Sabre one key he 
said was to his vehicle. Sabre said itd had the key examined by two experts and both had 
concluded it definitely wasnt the correct  key for Mr Ps vehicle. It says hes been adamant  all 
along that this is the only key he has for the vehicle but given  the analysis of the fob this 
simply cannot be true.
Sabre said in its final response that the fact Mr P had only supplied it with one key wasnt  
now an issue. But as hed been  unable to provide it with the vehicles keys or a valid 
explanation why hed sent it the key to another vehicle it was unable  to provide indemnity 
under the policy.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Following the description of the theft Sabre asked Mr P to return the vehicles key. As 
part of its investigation it sought expert advice on the key provided. Two reports were 
obtained from forensic key experts.  Both experts concluded the key submitted was 
non-functioning and not for Mr Ps vehicle. Its reasonable for Sabre to rely on this 
expert evidence.
As the experts reports suggest  the fob didnt originate from Mr Ps vehicle Sabre 
asked for more evidence and gave him the opportunity to validate his claim. Having 
reviewed everything  thats been said theres  not enough to prove a theft took place in 
light of the missing key to the vehicle. And its fair for Sabre to decline the claim on 
the basis that the key isnt accounted for. It hasnt  responded to the claim in an unfair 
manner.
Mr P and his representative have  asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided Sabre with one key he says was for his vehicle. But the expert evidence 
Sabre has obtained  from two independent forensic key experts concludes that this isnt the 
case. Amongst other things the experts  note the fob Mr P supplied wasnt  functional,  was 
faulty and the internal circuit board was damaged. They also say it was manufactured almost  
two years before the vehicles registration  and it didnt match the correct batch code for fobs 
supplied for the vehicle.
In summary  both experts conclude the key fob supplied by Mr P wasnt for his car. I agree 
with the investigator  that Sabre is entitled to rely on the experts evidence when deciding 
whether or not to indemnify Mr P. And although  Mr P says the key mustve been  switched  by 
the thief and then stolen,  theres nothing  to suggest or prove that was what  happened.
Ref: DRN92586692Taking everything into account  I think Sabre has acted reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions by investigating the claim and by subsequently  relying  on the 
independent expert  evidence it obtained.  Given that Mr P hasnt  given a suitable explanation 
as to why he cant  supply a key for the vehicle or accounted for the keys  whereabouts, I 
think Sabres entitled to decline to deal with Mr Ps claim as its done. And I also dont think  I 
can now fairly or reasonably require Sabre to deal with Mr Ps claim as he and his 
representative would like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258669