K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms T took out a credit card with Santander  in February 2008.  In June 2008 Ms T telephoned 
Santander to activate her card. At this point she was sold a PPI policy which wouldve 
helped cover her repayments  on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  It also provided carer  cover and life cover.
Ms T says she doesnt remember  agreeing to take the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that Santander  hadnt  explained the cost to Ms T properly. The 
adjudicator thought that if Santander  had explained  it properly she wouldnt have thought  it 
was good value for money and she wouldnt have bought  it.
Santander disagrees with the adjudicators view, so the case  has been  passed to me to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im upholding Ms Ts complaint.  
Ill explain  why.
Theres no recording available of the sale, but Santander has provided a copy  of the call 
script it says wouldve been used at the time. I think its likely this script was followed. 
In the script the price  of the policy was described  as 79p for every £100  credit card balance.  
While this was the headline cost there were other costs involved which  werent explained. 
For example the representative didnt explain that the cost of the policy was added  to the 
outstanding balance of the credit card and would attract interest.  It also didnt explain that 
the cost of the PPI would still be charged during  a successful  claim.
So I think Ms T didnt have all the cost information she needed. And I think if shed fully 
understood the cost she wouldnt have thought the policy  provided  good value for money for 
her. I say this because  if shed been off work  sick shed have received good  sick pay  six 
months full sick pay, followed by six months half sick pay. And combined with her savings 
work over 12 months of her pay I think shed have  thought she could manage from her 
existing means if she was too sick to work.  Given her length of service  in a public sector role 
I also think shed have  been entitled  to a good  redundancy package  which,  again, wouldve  
meant she didnt need  the unemployment cover  either.
So I think Ms T lost out because of what Santander did wrong.
putting things right
Ref: DRN91942932Santander should put Ms T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A. Santander should find out how much  Ms T wouldve owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy  hadnt been  added. It should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest  charged on those  premiums.  It should also remove 
any charges that were  caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those  charges. 
Santander should then refund the difference between  what Ms T owed when she 
closed her account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Ms T made 
a successful claim on the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
B. Santander should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms T 
would have  owed  when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C. If  when Santander  works out what Ms T would have owed each month  without 
PPI  Ms T paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Santander  should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Ms T paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when  Ms 
T wouldve  owed Santander Cards something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms T can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Im upholding Ms Ts complaint and direct  Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as Ive 
directed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9194293