K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  the handling of her claim under her home insurance policy  by 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G)  after her property  suffered damage caused by an 
escape of water.
background
In June 2016, Ms A suffered an escape  of water in a pipe under her home which  caused  
damage to her dining room. She made a claim to L&G under her policy which  it accepted. It 
arranged for its loss adjuster (who Ill call C) to manage the claim.
C noted that the property was a grade two listed building. It arranged for a structural  
specialist to oversee  external repair work. This was completed in December 2016. It also 
agreed a cash settlement  with Ms A for a replacement wood floor. However, before this 
could be laid, damp was discovered in the property,  as well as cracks in the walls  and floor.
C arranged for these problems to be investigated. Various contractors visited  the property. 
Eventually, in April 2018, C explained to Ms A that it believed  there  were  problems  in the 
property giving rise to dampness which were not related to the claim.  It said that these 
problems needed  to be fixed before the insured work could be carried  out, otherwise the 
repairs might  not be long-lasting. 
Ms A was unhappy  at the time it had taken  to reach  this position. She complained  to L&G 
about its handling of her claim.
In June 2018, L&G issued its final response. It acknowledged it had provided a poor service  
and offered £2,000 compensation.
Ms A was unhappy  at the amount offered. She referred her complaint to us.
In December 2018, while the complaint was under investigation by us, Ms A accepted  a 
cash settlement offer from L&G to allow her to complete the repairs  herself.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted the 
significant inconvenience to which Ms A had been  put as a result of L&Gs  poor handling of 
the claim.  Nonetheless,  he noted  that this inconvenience was effectively limited  to one room 
within her house. Taking this into consideration, he considered its offer of £2,000  
compensation was fair.
Ms A didnt accept the investigators  findings. She said although it was only the dining room 
which was subject to the claim, the furniture  and flooring from that room  had to be stored  in 
various places around the house and this had also adversely affected the use of those 
places. The claim had impacted on her familys quality of life for a period of over two years,  
including by making it difficult for her daughter to study for her GCSEs and by preventing 
them from being able to sit down together for a family meal. She considered that it was the 
failures of C, acting on behalf  of L&G, which had caused the claim to drag on as long as it 
had. She felt that more compensation was justified.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN99140872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Claims for damage following an escape of water can often take a long time to be resolved 
due to the need for the property to be dried  before remedial  work is undertaken. In this case, 
the claim was complicated  by the fact the property was grade two listed,  which  meant that 
repair work had to be in line with the advice of the local heritage office. Furthermore, the 
property apparently had pre-existing issues which were not covered by the insurance but 
which needed to be addressed before the insured work could be carried  out.
Nonetheless, while I consider that L&G was swift to issue a cash  settlement for the wooden 
floor and also dealt  with the external  work in a satisfactory  way, it is clear that thereafter the 
claim wasnt handled as well as it should  have been.  L&Gs  various contractors couldnt 
decide on how to tackle the problem of dampness  and on which  work  should be covered by 
the claim.  Consequently, although there were various inspections, reports  and internal  
discussions, it appears that very little happened practically to resolve the claim for a period 
of well over a year, until C explained its position  to Ms A in April 2018. I can understand how 
this would have  been extremely frustrating for her.
By the time L&G issued its final response  letter, it was two years since  shed made the claim 
which was still unresolved.
I consider that L&G and its contractors should  have worked together  to resolve  things much  
sooner. In particular, they should  have  involved  the local heritage office at a much  earlier  
stage. While it was inevitable that the claim would have created some inconvenience  and 
upheaval for Ms A, this neednt have dragged on for anywhere near as long as it did. And so 
compensation is clearly  due to Ms A for the unnecessary trouble to which  she has been put.
However, I consider  the amount offered of £2,000 is appropriate. I have considered Ms As 
comments about how the disruption  isnt confined to just her dining room  and I note that she 
has also been prevented from putting her property on the market while the claim has been 
going on. But it is chiefly her dining room which has been affected and, taking everything into 
account, I think the amount offered by L&G is fair for the level and duration of inconvenience.
I should point  out to Ms A that this decision only takes account of events up to the time of 
L&Gs final response  letter in June 2018.  If she feels there have been further failings by L&G 
and its contractors since that time, she is able to raise a further  complaint about  this with 
L&G and, if dissatisfied  with its response, refer it to us.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9914087