K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 with a 
credit card. Mr W says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S)  mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ws application  form. In it, there was a separate  section for PPI 
broadly describing  the cover and setting  out cost details. Customers  had to tick a box to take 
PPI. And whilst the wording does  recommend  customers take it, nothing on the form says 
the PPI is compulsory or that customers had to tick this box. So it does look like it was set 
out as an optional cover. On Mr Ws form the box to take PPI has been  ticked and hes 
signed the PPI section  of the form to confirm his selection. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely M&S made it clear Mr W didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
I dont think M&S advised Mr W to take the PPI. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for him  but it did have to make sure Mr W got the information  he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.  
Its possible the information M&S gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable.
Mr W told us he had good sick pay provided  by his employer. But this policy wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months if he was unable to work  because of illness  or injury.  And it also 
wouldve provided up to 12 months  of cover for unemployment. This is longer than Mr W has 
said his full sick pay would have lasted. Mr W has also mentioned  that he had a large 
amount of savings, but he doesnt seem  to have accrued  these savings until 2004, after he 
took out this policy.  So it looks like, at the time he took out the PPI, the policy  could have 
provided him with a useful benefit  if something  had gone wrong.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
So I dont  think this policy was mis-sold,  which means M&S doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN92630182my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9263018