K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Esure  Insurance Limited (Esure) have not handled  her motor 
insurance claim fairly.
background
Miss M holds a motor  insurance policy with Esure and made a claim after being  involved in 
an accident on 13 July 2018. The damage was assessed by a garage,  and an estimate for 
the repair work was subsequently authorised by an engineer. 
Miss M was unhappy because the engineer had not physically inspected the car and, as a 
result, said he had failed to authorise all the repairs necessary  to rectify the damage caused 
by the accident.  Miss M told Esure there was damage to the offside of the vehicle as a result 
of being shunted into a roundabout, which had not been provided for in the engineers 
report. 
Esure referred the matter  to one of their senior engineers, who considered that the damage 
was neither consistent with the incident reported  nor the accident  location. Miss M remained 
unhappy with this assessment of the damage, so Esure then agreed for an independent 
inspection to be carried out.
The engineer that completed the independent  report was also of the opinion that the 
disputed damage  was not related  to the accident, so Esure refused to carry out any further  
repairs. But they did acknowledge  that the service theyd provided Miss M had at times fallen 
below standard,  so they paid £100  in compensation by way of an apology. Unhappy with 
this, Miss M brought her complaint to this service, as she didnt feel the independent 
engineer was fully aware of the circumstances of the accident.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for Esure  to rely 
on the independent engineers report,  and felt that £100 was fair compensation in the 
circumstances. 
Miss M didnt agree, so the complaint  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the same  reasons  as the investigator.
Where the original assessment of the damage  was in dispute, Esure arranged for an 
independent inspection to provide an impartial opinion on the matter.  But Miss M still doesnt 
agree with the findings of the report,  and submits that the engineer was not in full possession  
of the facts relating to the accident, meaning his findings must be flawed. 
Ive reviewed the independent  report,  and I can see that Miss M was in attendance  during 
the inspection  but the repairer  was not. And I can see that the engineer  has stated: at the 
time of my inspection the insured advised of the accident circumstances and has then gone 
on to detail the incident. So, given  that Miss M was present at the inspection  and was 
assumedly the only witness of the accident in attendance, I think its likely the engineer was 
Ref: DRN92024052given enough  information surrounding the incident to make an informed judgment on 
whether the disputed damage was related. 
As it stands, the engineer stated that the damage was not accident related. And given that 
the report was completed by a suitably qualified engineer  and given that Miss M has not 
provided any comparable  expert evidence to show that the report was inaccurate  I 
consider it was fair for Esure  to rely on it. So it follows  that I do not think  they are responsible 
for any further repairs to Miss Ms vehicle that were not related to the accident.
This leaves  the matter  of whether the compensation offered  for poor service  is fair and 
reasonable. Miss M doesnt feel that £100  is commensurate to the experience  shes had. Ive 
considered the service  Miss M received, and its clear that shes  been left frustrated and 
inconvenienced by the actions of Esure. I can see, for example, that she was not kept 
updated about the progress of her repairs and had to chase up responses  on a number  of 
occasions. But I have  to consider whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded 
so far is proportionate to the distress  and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Miss M, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of Esure have had a greater impact  than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant  
say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating for Miss M, but I dont consider the 
actions of Esure to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. And for the times 
when their service did fall below standard, I consider £100 to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances, which I understand has already been paid to Miss M.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202405