K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Society  of Lloyds gave poor service under  a home emergency policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurers  and other 
regulated financial  firms.  We deal with complaints about regulated  activities and activities  
ancillary to regulated activities.
Mr L had insurance cover  for his central  heating boiler. The policy was in the name of an 
insurance intermediary.  The insurer responsible for dealing  with claims was a syndicate at 
Lloyds. Where I refer to the insurer or Lloyds, I include the intermediary, its engineers and 
others for whose actions  I hold the insurer responsible.
Mr L complained that the insurer hadnt serviced  his boiler properly. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She dealt with the 
complaint as a complaint against the intermediary. She thought  that it had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances.  
Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. 
He says, in summary,  that the annual  service reports said the boiler was in good working 
order. The intermediary never reported any of the faults to him. But he didnt renew  the 
policy in January 2018. Instead he took out a different policy. The new insurers  engineer 
inspected the boiler  in July 2018. He said it was the worst boiler he had ever seen  and 
couldnt believe it had ever been serviced  at all, Mr L says.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls boiler was installed  in 2007, according to the reports  of the insurer  and the new 
insurer.
In about November 2012 Mr L took out the policy through the intermediary. It says it fixed  a 
fault in December 2012. Its records  show that Mr Ls boiler had been leaking and had started  
to rust.
The records  show annual service visits in 2013, 2014, 2015  and 2016.  And from time to 
time, the intermediary also visited to do repairs under the policy.  On some of its visits the 
intermediary recorded  that the boiler  looked  dirty because of old leaks.
In January 2017 Mr L renewed the policy. Ive seen the policy schedule. It says that the 
intermediary will do an annual service. It says that the service  isnt covered by the insurance. 
And it says that the annual service costs  about £50.00.
But that cost is part of the annual insurance premium. And Mr L couldnt choose to opt out of 
having that service  and paying for it.
Ref: DRN90567942So I find that the annual service  at least in 2017  was a regulated activity or ancillary to a 
regulated activity about which Mr L was entitled  to bring his complaint to us. 
Lloyds sent a final response letter on 18 September 2018 saying that the complaint should  
be against the intermediary. But I hold Lloyds responsible for complaints about the quality of 
the annual service under the policy. And I think the intermediary has dealt with this complaint 
on behalf of the insurer.
I accept that In April 2017, the intermediary did its most recent  annual  service.
Later in 2017  the intermediary did some repairs under  the policy.
From January 2018 Mr L decided to change to a new insurer.  It did an inspection  on about 
12 July 2018.  Its engineer  reported as follows:
Boiler in poor state need a full strip down  and need  new gas valve and expansion 
vessel and that just for starters boiler never been  serviced as per instructions
Mr L says the new insurer  cancelled the new policy. And Mr L says he hasnt been able to 
get replacement  cover at all. So I can see why Mr L complained that the insurer hadnt 
serviced his boiler  properly in 2017  and previous  years.
But the intermediarys records  show that it had done a service  each year up to and including  
2017. 
The new insurers engineer didnt like the look of the boiler.  He said it needed at least  a new 
gas valve and expansion vessel.
But his report doesnt give any details of what he thought the intermediary had failed to do 
on the service visit. And over a year had gone  by between the annual service  visit in April 
2017 and the report from the new insurers engineer  in July 2018. So Im not persuaded that 
the insurers engineer had fallen  below a reasonable standard  of service.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to order the insurer to pay compensation to Mr L or to do 
anything further  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I do not 
direct Society of Lloyds  to do anything further  in response to Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9056794