K821x#15The complaint
Mrs D says Assured Direct Homeloans  (Assured Direct) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mrs D took out with a loan in 2007 
which was secured against  her home.  The policy was sold during a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Assured Direct didnt respond the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Assured Direct has told us it recommended the policy  to Mrs D. This meant it shouldve  
taken reasonable  steps to make sure the PPI was right for her. Overall, I dont think Assured 
Direct did this. 
Mrs D has told us that at the time she bought the policy  she was self-employed. This is 
important - as looking at the terms of the policy  I can see the unemployment cover wasnt 
available if the applicant is self-employed. And although the policy would have covered    
Mrs D if she unable to work due to being  unwell, I dont think  she would have agreed to take 
out the policy if she had known the PPI didnt cover  her for a large portion of what she was 
paying for. 
Putting things  right
Mrs D borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve  been, and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So, Mrs D needs  to get back the extra shes 
paid. 
So, Assured Direct  should:
Work  out and pay Mrs D the difference between  what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs D paid each month from when  she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Assured Direct can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Assured Direct  to take off tax from this interest. Assured Direct 
must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN95805722My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Assured Direct Homeloans  should  put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580572