K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought a MPPI policy which started in September 2007 to protect  their 
mortgage repayments. The policy was sold during meeting and covered Mr P only against 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs P believe Yorkshire mis-sold the policy to them.  They say MPPI was not 
necessary due to the sick pay Mr P had. They say they were given the impression the 
application would have more likely succeeded if PPI was purchased.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs P dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs P during the meeting. Ive 
looked at what  they said about  how the policy was sold  including that they were given 
the impression  their application for a mortgage  would more  likely succeed if they took it. 
But I think, after considering the documentation  provided including a demands & needs 
form and a statement  of fact document that was provided at the time , I am persuaded a 
conversation was had about PPI and Mr and Mrs P were  given a choice to have  the 
policy. I havent seen  enough information  to support what Mr and Mrs P have said,  to 
safely conclude otherwise.
I think Yorkshire gave  advice to Mr and Mrs P to have the MPPI policy,  so it needed to 
ensure it was suitable for Mr P as the sole policy holder. And I think  it more likely  than 
not was suitable  for him. I say this based  on what  Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time.  Mr P has said he had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay. But I am 
persuaded he would have found  the benefit  provided by the policy  useful at a difficult 
time over an extended period. He didnt  have enough provisions at the time of sale that I 
would consider  he would have felt the policy was surplus  to requirements,  at least not 
enough that would have made the policy  unsuitable for him. I also couldnt find anything 
else within the policy such as a restrictive or limiting  term that would have made the 
policy unsuitable for Mr P.
Yorkshire has provided some information about  the costs relating  to the MPPI that        
Mr and Mrs P took out within the sales documentation. But I cannot  be sure if it provided 
costs to them in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way in the meeting. That said,  even if it 
did provide clear information, it wouldnt  have made any difference to whether Mr and 
Ref: DRN92224452Mrs P would have taken the policy out or not. I say this for the same reasons why I think 
the policy was suitable for Mr P. And its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr P wouldve been affected by any of 
these.
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs P would  have avoided protecting their repayments given 
the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured  against their home.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs P but I dont think  they were mis-sold  the 
MPPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9222445