K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that a new car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) isnt of satisfactory quality and she wants to  
reject it.
Mrs R has been represented throughout the complaint by Mr R who also uses the car. 
background 
In March 2016 Mrs R entered into a four year hire purchase agreement  with MBFS for a new 
car. The car is driven by a relative Mr R. After around 15 months  of using the car Mr R says 
he experienced it pulling to the right. This was an intermittent problem that arose  every  six 
weeks or so but he says it makes the car unsafe to drive. 
The fault was raised at the cars service in August 2017. By then the car had a mileage of 
just over 32,000.  The dealership servicing the car couldnt find any fault with the car. The 
fault was also raised  with the dealership in November 2017,  January 2018 and March 2018. 
The engineers at the dealership werent  able to replicate the fault despite  testing. The 
dealership also referred  the issue to the manufacturers technical  team  but again no fault 
with the car could  be located. 
The car had developed problems with its SatNav and Intelligent Lighting System  but these  
were fixed  under warranty. Mr R says these problems point to an electrical fault with the car. 
He says there have  also been issues with the collision warning system being  activated 
despite the road ahead  being  clear.  This is also an intermittent problem. 
Mrs R complained to MBFS and said she wanted to reject the car as it was unsafe to drive 
and not of satisfactory quality. MBFS said that no fault with car had been  found even though 
it had been tested and inspected several times. It didnt accept the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality because of an inherent problem that had been present at the point of sale.  
MBFS also said that it had been noted that the tyres  on the car werent of the manufacturers 
specification. It said that Mrs R should  change these and have a wheel alignment conducted 
before any further  diagnostic testing could be conducted. 
Mr R, on behalf of Mrs R, declined  to replace the tyres as he said they wouldnt be 
responsible for the fault that the car was displaying.  Mrs R complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She said she 
hadnt seen any evidence of a fault or that the car was unsafe to drive.  The investigator said 
that MBFSs request  for the tyres  to be changed  before further  testing was reasonable as 
MBFS had exhausted  their checks on the car and nothing had been found.
Ref: DRN91602022The investigator said that if further evidence  was obtained such  as an independent  report 
then she would look again at the complaint.
Mr R, on behalf of Mrs R, disagreed with our investigators view. He said the car was clearly  
unsafe and he would  seek an independent  engineers view. He said it was probably unlikely 
a second opinion would identify the fault as it was intermittent. He thought a further 
inspection would result  in the engineer advising that the fault was a possibility  and that it 
wasnt reasonable for this type of fault to have developed in a car of this age. He disputed  
that changing the tyres would have  any impact on the steering of the car.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was new when it was acquired by Mrs R. Im aware that Mr R drives the car to and 
from work and so I think the majority  of the cars mileage will be his. Mr R says that the car 
pulling to the right can be so severe  that it has crossed three lanes in the past and he 
thinks its unsafe to drive. The problem arises about  every six weeks.
The car had some minor  issues with the SatNav  and Intelligent  Lighting System  which  were 
repaired under  the warranty.  Mr R says these are indicators that the car has an electrical 
system fault. But although the dealership has tested the car on multiple occasions and 
sought advice  from the manufacturers technical  team no fault or fault code has been  
identified.
I understand that Mr R had the car independently inspected but unfortunately I havent 
received the report  so I dont now what they found  or recommended.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  the car must  be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. And when the car is supplied under a finance agreement  then it is the credit  provider,  
MBFS in this case, who is responsible if there  are problems  with the car.
A consumer  has the right to reject faulty goods  in the first 30 days  after acquiring them and 
after that period  if a fault comes to light and it isnt considered to be wear  and tear then the 
dealer gets an opportunity to repair. However  MBFS says that no fault with car can be found  
so there  isnt any repair work that it can carry out.
While I appreciate Mr R says the car intermittently veers to the right I dont have any other  
evidence that supports  that there is a fault.  And I need to be satisfied  that the car has an 
inherent fault to consider that it isnt of satisfactory  quality. Ive seen that the dealership have 
looked at the car on four occasions and subjected  it to tests. Nothing at all has been found.  
Between each  of these inspections the car has been  driven  between  1500 and 2000 miles 
per month. By January  2018 the car had a mileage of just over 41,000.  And I think  this 
shows that the use of the car isnt being  affected  as thats above the average mileage.
So I dont  have enough to say that the car has fault or that any fault was developing at the 
point of sale. I cant reasonably and fairly say that the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Ref: DRN91602023Ive seen that Mr R feels  very strongly that the requirement by MBFS to have the tyres 
changed to those recommended by the manufacturer is unnecessary.  MBFS say this is the 
only feature of the car that its been able to identify as not being as expected  so Im not 
surprised it wants to rule out what effect, if any, the tyres have on the steering of the car. I 
cant say this request  is unreasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. Since the 
fault has never been replicated MBFS would want to consider every  possibility in its checks.
So looking  at the evidence Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint and I dont require MBFS to 
do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160202