K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the way Santander  UK Plc (Santander) managed his chargeback 
request; the delays  and poor communications;  and the expenses  he incurred which hed like 
to be refunded.
background
Mr T used  his Santander account  debit card to buy a used car in September 2018. In 
November 2018  he found the car to be faulty,  so contacted  Santander and asked it to do a 
chargeback.
Before the money  could  be credited  to his account, Mr R had to return  a disclaimer form to 
Santander. Unfortunately he didnt receive  the first two forms it sent him, but he did return  
the third. This led to some  delay in the car money  being credited to his account pending the 
outcome of the chargeback.
On 3 January  2019 Mr T received the funds  credited  to his account. Then, after 45 days  with 
no defence put forward by the merchants bank, the money became his. 
However, before this happened Mr T feels he wasnt treated well by Santander, and that its 
service regarding the chargeback process was very poor. 
He complained to Santander and it issued a final response saying that it didnt agree it had 
acted poorly. It explained that in a chargeback situation its bound by the relevant card 
scheme rules, and that it followed  this process correctly. While it could see that Mr T had 
experienced distress  and inconvenience, it felt this was down to the business that sold him 
the car. 
Mr T didnt  think  this was fair, and brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into matters,  and concluded that Santander  wasnt to blame for the poor experience  
he felt hed received  regarding  the chargeback, and therefore couldnt be held responsible 
for that, or his expenses. So the complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr T still disagreed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating the chargeback  process  was for Mr T. It must  have  been  a worrying 
time too, and took some effort on his part to try to sort things  out. However, I havent seen 
any evidence to convince me that it was the actions of Santander specifically that made 
matters difficult. So I cant uphold the complaint.
I know this will be extremely  disappointing to Mr T, but I hope I can explain why I think  this is 
a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties. 
Firstly, Im glad to see that Mr T got the money  he paid for the car back. I can see that part of 
the reason the chargeback process was complicated was because the business who sold 
Ref: DRN97284782the car had stopped trading. In those circumstances,  its particularly fortunate  that the money 
was repaid to Mr T, and its now safely his. 
If this hadnt happened,  Im not convinced we could say with certainty the chargeback  would 
have succeeded.  As in order  to ensure this, the card scheme  rules  required that evidence  be 
provided that the goods had been returned,  or that return/repair was specifically refused. 
And we know that Mr T had difficulty proving both of these. 
In any event, the success or otherwise  of the chargeback itself is now a moot point. What I 
need to consider is whether I think Santander provided an acceptable level of service  to Mr 
T, and if not, what I think it needs  to do now to put things right.
I can see that the chargeback request wasnt quick and easy. Im not sure how often that is 
ever the case.  But I do note that Santander logged the request on time, and gave Mr T the 
right advice on how to proceed. Its obviously annoying that he didnt receive the first two 
disclaimers he was sent  which delayed the money being credited to his account  but Ive 
seen the relevant evidence from Santander and do accept that they were sent. 
There then followed some further  delay when Santander was asking for further  information  
and evidence. As Mr T is aware,  Santander  doesnt  decide the chargeback  rules.  Thats  a 
matter for the card scheme  issuer,  and Santander  has to follow that process. Therefore, in 
order to maximise the chances of a successful  chargeback, those rules need  to be followed 
as closely as possible. So I cant say Santander  behaved  unreasonably in asking for this 
information. I think it was doing its best to help Mr T, and that it did its best to explain to him 
that it didnt make the rules, or even make the chargeback decision.
I do appreciate that because of circumstances outside of Mr T and Santanders control, not 
all of the information/evidence requested could be provided. This is because  the business  
that sold Mr T the car hadnt been replying to him, and then stopped trading from its 
premises. So this of course made it very difficult for Mr T to satisfy the chargeback rules. 
However, I cant say that any of this was Santanders fault.  
I believe Santander followed the relevant chargeback rules  to the best of its ability. And 
ultimately Mr T did get his money  back. I acknowledge that this process was frustrated and 
protracted, which must have been annoying and worrying  for Mr T, but again I cant  say that 
this was Santanders responsibility. It was acting as a middle-man, if you like, for the card 
scheme issuer. It didnt make  up the rules. And I think that it did its best in the circumstances 
to communicate  clearly with Mr T, in a genuine  attempt to maximise his chances of success 
with the chargeback. 
Overall, while  I can see Mr T didnt  have a good  experience, I expect thats probably rare in 
a chargeback situation as the processes can be so easily  complicated  and frustrated. And I 
havent seen evidence to persuade me that Santanders to blame  for the complications, 
delays, or difficulties that beset Mr Ts claim. 
On the basis of this, it wouldnt  be fair for me to ask Santander to pay Mr T any 
compensation, or expenses, so I wont be upholding the complaint.
Ref: DRN97284783my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9728478