K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the charges that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  applied 
when she paid a foreign  cheque into her account.  She also says she wasnt given clear 
information about these charges or the exchange rate that it would use. 
background
Mrs C had a cheque in Euros, drawn on an overseas bank. She took it to Halifax,  which told 
her it would collect the cheque for her. This took about a month. But when the money was 
credited to Mrs Cs account,  it was less than she expected.
Halifax told Mrs C that the exchange rate used was 1.167, which it said was the prevailing 
rate at the time the cheque was converted. It also said the foreign bank had deducted a 
charge of €221.12 and that it had deducted  a fee of £80.
Mrs C wasnt happy. Her brother had banked a cheque  for the same  amount with another 
bank and hed received  a higher  amount   about £750 more.  His bank  had given him a 
better exchange rate, and hed been charged  less. Mrs C complained to Halifax about the 
amount shed received and the information it gave her about the exchange rate and fees it 
applied.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the exchange rate is determined when 
the money is paid in, but that rates differed  from bank to bank. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. She felt the charges she incurred were  excessive, and 
didnt reflect the banks costs. Mrs C also thought Halifax  was less than transparent about 
the exchange rate, which made  it difficult to obtain  the best rate.
Our adjudicator empathised with Mrs C, but thought Halifax had set out the amount it would 
charge, and the possibility of additional charges by the overseas bank. The adjudicator was 
also satisfied that Halifax gave Mrs C enough information about its foreign  cheque collection 
process to understand that the exchange  rate wasnt known at the point she asked the bank 
to collect on her behalf. Overall, the adjudicator didnt  think Halifax  had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, or needed to do anything more.  But Mrs C disagreed and asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I understand that Mrs C 
is frustrated by the charges and exchange  rate applied by Halifax  to her cheque. But Im not 
persuaded to uphold  her complaint. Ill explain why.
Cheques drawn  on an overseas  bank dont follow the usual UK cheque  clearing process.  
When presented with a foreign cheque, a UK bank will decide whether its prepared  to 
accept the cheque by negotiation or collection. Halifax  explained  the difference  on the form it 
gave Mrs C, but Ill summarise the position  here.
A negotiated  cheque  is one on which the bank gives value for the cheque funds on the 
assumption it will clear. While that gives certainty  about the exchange rate that will apply, it 
presents a potential  risk to both the bank and the customer, in the event the cheque is 
Ref: DRN92330362returned unpaid.  Where the cheque is a relatively high value (as here), a bank may therefore 
be unwilling to accept  a cheque for negotiation. 
Cheques accepted for collection, on the other  hand,  offer certainty of payment but no 
certainty as to the exchange rate. That rates established when cheque is paid, rather  than 
when its received.
The decision  on whether  to accept a cheque  for negotiation is one for the bank to take.  Its 
effectively providing  an advance to the customer, and so the decision takes into account the 
risk of receiving payment in the event the cheque is returned  unpaid. Its not for me to 
interfere with the banks decision on the level of risk its prepared to accept; in these 
circumstances I think its for the bank  to decide this for itself.  However,  it does mean its 
therefore important  that a bank makes its customer aware of the basis  on which  it is 
accepting a foreign  cheque. It will inform  the customers decision about how they proceed, 
and the risks being accepted.
how did Halifax make  Mrs C aware it was collecting, rather  than negotiating, the cheque?
The form says the banks default position is to negotiate a cheque,  and it offers a tick box 
option in the event that negotiation isnt available. Here, Halifax says its Personal Lending 
Decisions team decided to accept Mrs Cs cheque  on a collection basis on 7 March  2018. It 
told us that Mrs C had asked for the cheque to be returned to her if it wasnt able to process 
her cheque via the negotiation process.  So, Halifax  returned her cheque  by secure post in 
accordance with her instructions. And Ive seen Mrs Cs electronic signature confirming she 
received her returned  cheque on 9 March 2018.
Halifax says Mrs C re-presented her cheque to Halifax  after it was returned to her and that it 
was, at this point, sent for collection. By this stage, Im satisfied that Mrs C knew  or ought  to 
have reasonably known that Halifax wouldnt be able to negotiate her cheque.  This was, 
after all, the reason it returned Mrs Cs cheque to her. So, this meant the only way Halifax  
was able to proceed  was to collect the cheque instead. Mrs C had the option of making 
alternative arrangements for her cheque  elsewhere. But by presenting  her cheque a second 
time I think she made an informed choice  to proceed on a collection basis.  So, I cant fairly 
find that Halifax didnt  make Mrs C aware  it would  collect  this cheque.
how did Halifax explain how it would determine  the exchange rate that would apply?
Halifax says it told Mrs C in branch that an exchange  rate cant  be provided when it collects 
a cheque. And it said Mrs C was asked to read the documentation she completed when 
depositing her cheque as this explained the difference between  negotiation and collection.  
Ive seen Halifaxs foreign cheque process document  which sets out how international 
cheques are dealt  with and what bank staff can tell customers in these situations.  This 
document states that where  a cheque is collected  the bank wont  make the value of the 
cheque available  to the customer until the cheque has been presented  for payment to the 
paying bank and the funds received.  And it clearly outlines that the value  of the cheque may 
not be made available for the customer for up to eight weeks from when its presented to the 
bank for payment. 
Halifax explained that because cheques that go for collection  dont have a set time scale it 
cant tell a customer what exchange rate it will apply. This is because  the exchange  rate can 
change on a daily basis and its determined at the time the funds are electronically received 
Ref: DRN92330363after the cheque  has cleared at the issuing bank.  So the exchange rate used will depend on 
the rate on the day the payment is made or cleared,  which  can differ  from the rate at the time 
of the deposit.
Im satisfied there was legitimate reason why Halifax couldnt tell Mrs C what exchange  rate 
it would  use to convert her cheque . It couldnt  have predicted when  the cheque  would clear  
or the rate it would apply  on a future  date.  But I think  it gave Mrs C enough information 
overall about its foreign cheque collection process to help her understand that the exchange 
rate wasnt  known at the point she asked the bank to collect  on her behalf. She chose to 
proceed with cheque collection.  And I think that, when she made  that choice, she ought  
reasonably to have  known  that the exchange rate would be determined some  time after she 
presented her cheque  to Halifax and after it had received the funds from the foreign bank. 
  
I can see that Mrs C is unhappy that her brother received a more favourable exchange  rate. 
But it isnt known whether his cheque  was processed via negotiation and collection. So, I 
cant fairly comment on why he may have  received  a better exchange rate.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I accept the reason why it couldnt tell Mrs C what  
exchange rate it would apply when the money  credited her account. While I can understand 
Mrs Cs frustration, Im satisfied Halifax hasnt done anything wrong. 
charges
Halifaxs fee for handling foreign cheques  of the value Mrs C had is the same, whether it 
relates to negotiation or collection.  That is, it charges 0.25% of the sterling value, capped at 
a maximum of £80. This information is set out clearly in the terms and conditions  of Mrs Cs 
account. So, Im persuaded she had sufficient information to understand what  Halifax would 
charge for the service  she requested.
Mrs C makes the point about the banks charge not being reflective  of its costs. As a matter 
of law or regulation,  no such  requirement  currently exists. The Consumer Rights Act 2015, 
for example, excludes from the assessment of fairness the matter of whether the price of a 
service is appropriate  for that service. Thats not to say a bank can charge any amount it 
chooses  to do so may result in a breach of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
overarching principle on treating customers fairly.
Ive borne that in mind in considering the amount Halifax charged Mrs C. Its charge of a 
percentage of the sterling value could result in her being treated unfairly. But the bank has 
taken steps to mitigate against this by capping its charge at £80. The fact Mrs Cs siblings 
were charged lesser amounts doesnt immediately suggest unfairness. It may simply be that 
they received  a different  service from their respective banks. Even if they did not, that 
doesnt offer a basis on which  I could fairly  say Halifax should be required  to charge the 
same as its competitors do for additional banking services. 
Mrs C is also unhappy about the fee applied by the foreign bank. I can understand why. But, 
while its a high fee Halifax didnt charge it and it has no control over fees charged by other 
banks. Mrs C would, most  likely have been charged that fee if shed  deposited the cheque 
elsewhere. So it wouldnt be fair to hold Halifax responsible for it. 
Mrs C says Halifax didnt give her clear  information about this charge.  Ive looked at the 
account terms and conditions and the form Mrs C wouldve completed when depositing her 
cheque when thinking about this. The terms and conditions make it clear  that Halifax  will 
Ref: DRN92330364pass on charges by foreign banks to its customers and the form Mrs C wouldve completed 
when depositing  her cheque advises customers that many foreign banks make high fees for 
collecting cheques. Under the heading  Fees, the form tells customers  that additional 
charges may be applied  by the foreign bank, that these are variable, and that for collection, 
these fees can be high. 
This document is a five page document. The first three pages are sent to international 
clearings, page  four is handed  to the customer depositing a foreign  cheque and the final 
page is retained by the branch with a photocopy of the cheque  for its records. Mrs C said 
she wasnt given a copy of page  four to read or told that the other bank could apply a 
charge. But the member  of staff who served  Mrs C in branch remembered dealing with her 
and explaining that the foreign  bank may charge a fee. They say Mrs C was given a copy of 
page four of the guidelines,  which she read before leaving the branch. 
I appreciate that Mrs C is unhappy  with the amount the foreign bank deducted  from her 
cheque. And I can understand why she thinks Halifax shouldve told her what the foreign 
bank would charge.  But I cant reasonably expect Halifax to know  or set out  fees charged 
by overseas banks  for cheque collection. As I understand  it, the bank is simply required to 
make customers aware of the possibility of additional charges. Im satisfied  Halifax  did this.
So Im satisfied here that Halifax gave Mrs C as much information  as it could that the foreign 
bank could charge  a fee and that the amount could vary.  I dont think it could have given 
more information  about what that fee would be.
While I appreciate the reasons why Mrs C brought her complaint to our service, Im satisfied 
Halifax acted fairly  and reasonably here.  So, Im not going ask it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9233036