K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  PPI. Lloyds Bank  PLC were 
trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc. For simplicity I will refer to the business 
as Lloyds in this decision.   
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I explain  why I say this. The sale happened in 1992, 29 years  ago. 
So, its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to provide a copy  of the 
application for the PPI. So, having considered the time that has passed since the sale, I 
have seen insufficient evidence to uphold  the complaint on this matter. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  For example, Mr and Mrs 
D were eligible for the cover and although  they had existing means they still seem  to 
have had a need  for cover. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
Ref: DRN95783952they had, and for longer  than Mr and Mrs Ds employers would have  paid them at their 
full rate of pay. And whilst Mr and Mrs D told us they had some savings they could have 
relied on. I note that they chose to protect  them  at the time they took out their mortgage, 
by not having a smaller mortgage. And the policy would have further protected those 
savings. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ds employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could  affect  their ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  and/or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs D as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs D would  have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would  have still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ds individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ds particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 September 2021.
Ref: DRN95783953Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9578395