K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about negligence  and poor customer service he says he received from 
British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  when his boiler  broke down.
background 
Mr H had a HomeCare policy from BG. This was due to expire on 27 November 2018. Mr H 
told BG on 26 November that he didnt want  to renew it.
He contacted BG on Friday 30 November 2018  as his boiler had stopped working,  leaving 
him without  hot water  and heating. The pilot light was lit, but it wasnt  firing up. He explained 
to BG that he had two young  children  at the property, one of which was 17 months  old, but 
didnt feel the advisor  showed any empathy and wouldnt  handle his request  for a callout 
until hed renewed  his policy.
A BG engineer (Engineer 1) attended the property at 21.50 that evening.  Mr H says the 
engineer told him he didnt know for certain what was causing the fault. He said it could be 
the printed circuit board, the gas valve, or the solenoid. He says the engineer  told him hed 
ordered the necessary parts, and that another engineer (Engineer  2) would contact him and 
fit them the following  day, which was a Saturday.
Another engineer  (Engineer 3) in fact attended the property the following day but told Mr H 
he wouldnt  be able to carry  out any work  as Engineer  1 had made the boiler non-
operational. He also said that the parts that Engineer  1 had told Mr H were on order had not 
in fact been ordered because it had been too late in the day to do so, and they therefore 
wouldnt be available until Monday 3 December. Mr H was therefore left without hot water 
and heating over the weekend.
On Monday 3 December,  Engineer 1 returned. His report says he fitted a new solenoid. Mr H 
believes the engineer also replaced the gas valve, although this isnt mentioned in the 
engineers report.
The following  day, Mr H says he started  to feel unwell with nausea and a headache.  The 
next day, Wednesday 5 December, he felt worse, and could smell gas. He traced this to his 
boiler. He ventilated the property, turned off the boiler, and called BG again.
 Mr H says that despite explaining to BGs  advisor that his daughter had breathing  
difficulties, BGs advisor explained that nothing  further could be done until the following day. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied when he was told by BG that the gas would first need to be turned off 
by the gas utility company and that BG might  not be able to come to repair the source  of the 
leak until the following  day, which would leave the family once again without heating and hot 
water. 
Mr H contacted his local gas utility company. One of its engineers arrived  and confirmed 
there was a gas leak at the gas valve, and made it safe at the meter.
BG attempted  to contact  Mr H at 17.32 that day but no message was left as to what  the call 
was about, or how to contact the caller.  It was only after hed checked his BG account online 
that Mr H saw that BG had in fact scheduled an engineer to visit that same  day between 
09.00 and 18.00. When he contacted a BG call centre, the advisor he spoke to wasnt  able 
to tell what the earlier call had been for, although he assumed  it might  have been to say that 
the engineer wasnt going  to visit at the scheduled  time. Mr H was in the dark as to whether 
he was going  to receive a visit from BG that day.
Ref: DRN93563952But at 20.00 Mr H received a call from a BG engineer who said hed be with him later that 
evening. When he arrived, he said there were two separate leaks  to Mr Hs boiler, whereas 
the utility company had only identified one. He fixed the leak(s).
Mr H sent a complaint  to BG on 12 March 2019. He says that the gas leaks  were  due to the 
negligence of the BG engineer whod  installed  a new gas valve.  Hes unhappy about the fact 
that his family had had no heating or hot water  and had two young  children, one of whom 
had breathing issues. He said gas hadnt  been leaking before BGs engineer worked on his 
boiler on 3 December. He said the boiler had leaked gas into his property for over 48 hours, 
which couldve had serious consequences  for both him and his family. 
BG responded to Mr Hs complaint.  It said that when its engineer initially  visited  late in the 
evening on 30 November  2018, he found  the solenoid  was missing from the boiler which  is 
why it wasnt firing  up. He believed  a third party must have tampered with the boiler and this 
may have  led to the gas leak.  Any third party involvement invalidates  the cover provided by 
the policy.
It also said that when  an engineer returned on 5 December after Mr H had reported a gas 
leak, he found a very small leak (of about 2 mbar)  on the gas inlet union to the boiler, and 
this was repaired. BG says this would cause  no risk to health,  and this level of leakage could 
actually be safely left if there was no smell of gas. 
As he wasnt satisfied with BGs handling  of his complaint, Mr H brought  it to this service. He 
says the overall  service  hed received from BG had further added to his distress and 
inconvenience.  As a result, Mr H requested that BG award  at least  £1000  compensation  to 
acknowledge the trouble  and upset this matter had caused him. 
Our investigator considered that there  were a number of occasions  on which Mr H had 
suffered distress and inconvenience, and that the overall level of service hed received 
wasnt what he expected  to receive. Her view was that BG should pay Mr H £350  
compensation. 
As neither Mr H nor BG agreed  with our investigators view, theyve asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been  referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the further 
information and comments  provided by both BG and Mr H in response to my provisional 
decision. This further information doesnt  persuade  me to change my decision, which is to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint  but to make a different award to that suggested by our investigator.   
Ill explain  why.
In deciding on this complaint, I have to consider whether BG did anything wrong, and if it did, 
did this cause distress and inconvenience  to Mr H for which compensation might be 
appropriate. This service  doesnt make awards  that are aimed  at punishing a business.
Ive seen from BGs records that Mr H contacted it on 26 November 2018 to terminate his 
policy at the next renewal  date, which was 27 November 2018.  He says that BGs advisor 
wasnt empathetic to his situation, and I can appreciate that all Mr H wanted  was to book an 
engineers visit as soon as possible.
Ref: DRN93563953But as Mr H was in fact no longer covered  when  he contacted BG on 30 November,  I dont 
think it was unreasonable of BGs  agent to require that he reinstate his cover. In fact I think  it 
was very reasonable of BG to have accepted Mr H back onto cover knowing that he was 
wishing to make a claim. But he was reinstated, and a BG engineer (Engineer 1) did attend 
late that same evening, so I think BG responded within a reasonable time.
Engineer 1s report states that the boiler wasnt firing up. BG has said that the solenoid  was 
missing, but the engineers report doesnt make any reference to a missing solenoid,  which  I 
think is strange. Mr H also says that Engineer  1 told him he didnt know what  the problem 
was, and that it couldve been  the printed circuit  board,  the gas valve,  or the solenoid. 
Replacement parts  were needed,  but the cut off time for ordering parts  for next day 
availability is 20.00, and by this time it was after 22.00. If Engineer  1 had given Mr H the 
impression that the parts would be available the next day, he shouldnt  have done so, as it 
raised Mr Hs expectations. Engineer 2 visited the next day, but he wasnt able to do 
anything as Engineer  1 had left the boiler  non-operational. But in any event, the parts 
required werent available, and that wasnt the fault of Engineer  1.
Mr H was therefore left without heating and hot water until Monday 3 December which  I 
accept wouldve caused him and his family  great inconvenience. But my view is that BG did 
all it reasonably could  to get the parts needed so the boiler could be fixed as soon as 
possible. So I dont  think that BG did anything wrong here which might justify  compensation.
Mr H says he believes Engineer 1 fitted a new gas valve when he returned  on 3 December.  
Hes provided a copy of a BG Work Request that he says evidences this. But the fitting of a 
gas valve isnt mentioned on Engineer 1s report, which states  Replaced  solenoid on gas 
valve and tested central heating and hot water.  Also, I note that the same Work Request to 
which Mr H refers also states Replaced solenoid only  missing  from original gas valve.  But 
Mr H has provided information that the replacement of a solenoid  should only take around 
30 minutes, yet Engineer 1 spent  at least 70 minutes working on the boiler. He also says he 
saw that the engineer had opened the outer case door panel which he says he wouldnt 
have had to do if he was only fitting a solenoid. 
The next day Mr H noticed  that there was a gas leak and contacted  BG on 
Wednesday 5 December.  Ive listened  to the call that Mr H made to report it. I consider  that 
the manner in which his concern was addressed by BGs advisor  was somewhat lacking in 
any concern for the fact that Mr H had been  without heating  and hot water  from Friday to 
Monday and his young child had breathing difficulties.  
Mr H maintains that the gas leak was due to the negligence of the BG engineer  who 
incorrectly installed a new gas valve. He says the engineer had a duty of care and an 
obligation to exercise due diligence, which he failed to perform.  He says hed been 
significantly inconvenienced because of the engineers negligence. He also complains that 
the boiler leaked natural  gas for over 48 hours and was a danger to him and his family, his 
property and that of his neighbours and could have had serious consequences.
 
Whilst I appreciate the frustration and inconvenience  that Mr H and his family experienced, I 
have to consider  if BG did anything wrong here and caused avoidable delay in getting his 
heating and hot water up and running again.
Theres a conflict in the evidence before me as to the work that Engineer 1 performed on 
3 December, and whether  or not he fitted  a new gas valve as well as a new solenoid.  But I 
dont consider that its necessary for me to attempt to resolve  this conflict.  Although  BG 
denies that its engineer was responsible for the gas leak, in the absence of any other 
Ref: DRN93563954explanation, it seems likely to me, on the balance of probabilities, that BGs engineer  was 
responsible. He was the last person to work on Mr Hs boiler before Mr H detected  that there 
was a gas leak. Mr H hadnt  previously mentioned a smell of gas when he first contacted  
BG. 
After Mr H reported the leak on Wednesday morning, the gas was isolated by the gas utility 
company later that morning, and BG attended that evening to repair the leak. BG says that 
this leak was so small  as to pose  no risk. So the complaint was made and dealt with the 
same day, and Mr H was without heating and hot water again for only a matter of hours.
My conclusion is that although there  was poor communication by BG to Mr H, leaving  him 
uncertain as to when  the problems hed reported  would  be fixed, BG addressed the initial 
boiler problem  as soon as it was able to access the necessary parts, and the gas leak was 
addressed on the same  day that it was reported.
So apart from the fact that its likely that the gas leak was attributable to the work that BGs 
engineer undertook on 3 December, and that its communication was poor, I dont think  BG 
has done anything  substantially wrong.  But Mr H says the gas leak made  him feel unwell. It 
also lead to him having the inconvenience  of having to contact the gas utility  company and to 
chase BG to repair the problem it had caused,  which  was made  worse  by poor 
communication. I think that £250 compensation would be reasonable to reflect  the distress 
and inconvenience  Mr H suffered over the 4 and 5 December 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay him £250 compensation.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.    
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9356395