K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to him the £200  that hes claiming  under  
the chargeback  rules.
background
Mr F used  his Santander credit card in July 2017 to pay a £200  deposit to a builder for some 
building work  at his home. He also paid the builder £13,802 from his bank  account.  The 
builder went into liquidation  so Mr F claimed a refund of the amount that hed paid to the 
builder from Santander  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But the total price 
for the building  work was £46,408  which exceeded the maximum limit for a claim under 
section 75  so his claim was rejected by Santander. Mr F then complained to this service 
but his complaint wasnt upheld. 
He then made another complaint to this service about a chargeback. He says that Santander 
sent him a claim form which he completed  and returned but was then told that the time limit 
for a chargeback claim  had expired. He says that Santander was fully aware of the 
circumstances, all of the facts and the information  from his section 75 claim - but he had to 
complete the claim form and it then told him that time had expired. He complained to 
Santander about the additional stress  that it had caused him. He wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
Santander had done anything substantially wrong  by not making  Mr F aware  of the time 
limits for making a chargeback claim.  And she said that she wasnt able to agree that 
Santander had acted unreasonably  by refusing to raise the chargeback.
Mr F has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that he can see no justifiable reason why Santander would offer to do a chargeback,  send 
him the relevant claim form and then declare  that it was too late. And he says that Santander  
had full knowledge of all the circumstances  from his section 75 claim. He also says that hes 
supplied Santander  with an e-mail  from the builders insolvency practitioner from March  2018 
which states that its unlikely that there  would  be any recoverable  assets   so he says that 
this should have been taken as the trigger point  for it to initiate the chargeback claim. He 
says that Santander offered to complete a chargeback in September 2017 but he declined at 
that time as he was concerned that a chargeback claim  would compromise his claim under 
section 75. And he believes that Santander  should  be liable for the full loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made. 
Mr F made the £200  payment  to the builder  in July 2017 and he claimed  a refund of the full 
amount that hed paid to the builder from Santander  in September  2017. He says that 
Santander offered  to make a chargeback claim in September  2017  but that he declined. That 
Ref: DRN98041882was his decision and Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for Santander to 
give him more information about  a chargeback at that time.  
After his section 75 claim  had been  rejected,  Mr F asked  Santander  to make a chargeback 
claim for the payment of £200 and he completed a chargeback claim form. He says that 
Santander already  had the information for the chargeback from his section 75 claim but that 
he provided all of the information  again.  Santander  then said that the time limit for a 
chargeback claim had expired. 
I can understand the distress and frustration that this mustve  caused Mr F  particularly at a 
time that was already stressful for him. But I consider that Santander  was entitled to ask 
Mr F to complete  a chargeback claim form  and Im not persuaded that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so  even though the information was largely the same as the 
information that hed provided to it in connection  with his section 75 claim.  
And I consider that Mr Fs chargeback claim was made after the time limit for a chargeback 
claim had expired under the applicable  scheme  rules. So Im not persuaded that Santander 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining  Mr Fs chargeback claim. The payment  was made 
in July 2017 and I consider that to be when the relevant time frame  started. I dont consider 
that the time frame started  when the insolvency practitioner made  its March  2018 statement 
about the builders  assets.
So I consider that Santander hasnt acted incorrectly in connection with Mr Fs chargeback 
claim. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Santander  to refund the £200 payment to Mr F - or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9804188