K820x#14complaint
Mr E says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr E bought the policy in 1994,  at the same time as taking out a credit  card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Es credit  card application  had a section for PPI. It gave a brief overview of what  the 
policy was for and what it cost, then had two options to choose from: one to buy PPI and one 
to turn it down. Both options were equally prominent, and there was no indication that the 
policy would help Mr E get his credit card in any way. The option to buy PPI was chosen, 
and Mr E signed the form and returned it by post. So I think that MBNA made Mr E aware he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it  even if, understandably, he 
no longer remembers  doing so after so long.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr E, so they didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
They did have to give Mr E enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information MBNA gave Mr E about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, Mr E chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And he didnt recall having  any 
substantial alternative  cover.  So the policy could have been useful for Mr E if something 
went wrong. And if he changed his mind, Mr E could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. 
So overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put him off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9288494