K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the response  provided by Evolution Insurance Company Limited 
when he made two claims on his roadside  assistance insurance policy.  He wants a refund of 
his premium and £300  compensation. 
background
Mr Os car had two breakdowns at his home address and he called  Evolution  for assistance. 
It took three  and a half hours for Evolution  to respond to the first callout and about four hours 
for the second.  Mr O was unhappy with this but Evolution said response times  werent  
guaranteed.
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She 
thought Evolution  had caused an avoidable  delay  in one callout when it didnt log the call. 
She thought  Evolution should pay Mr O £50 compensation for this. But Evolution provided 
evidence that it had logged the call when  it was first made. 
So the investigator then thought that Evolution need do nothing further. She thought  that as 
Mr O was at home, then the response times were long but werent unreasonable.  And as 
hed had use of the policy, she didnt think a refund  of premium was fair. 
Mr O replied that the delays had caused him severe disruption and inconvenience. He said 
Evolution had told him it would take 90 minutes  to respond, but it took over four hours. He 
disagreed that Evolution had attended his home  after the second callout which  had later 
been cancelled.  Mr O asked for his complaint  to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Os frustration with having  to wait for four hours for Evolution to respond 
to his callouts  on two occasions within a short time.  I can understand that this must have 
been very testing  for him. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Os policy doesnt provide a guaranteed response time but is based on the 
best efforts of Evolution  to provide  a response. This will be dependent on such  factors as 
time, location, weather and availability. Ive seen  other roadside  assistance policies where a 
guaranteed response time is offered, but these require an additional premium. 
Evolution told Mr O on one occasion that a callout could take 90 minutes. But this wasnt 
guaranteed. So I cant  say that Evolution  acted outside the terms and conditions  of the policy 
by not responding sooner.  
Ref: DRN99072502Mr O told Evolution  that he was at home on both occasions. Mr O recalled that hed told 
Evolution that he was sitting  in the cold car during  the first callout. He thought this should 
have made  him a priority  for attendance. But I havent any evidence to show that Mr O told 
Evolution this at the time.  So it was left thinking  he was safe and warm at home awaiting its 
attendance.  
I do have evidence that Mr O told Evolution that he was waiting with the cold car because  
the alarm  kept sounding  during the second  callout. But he told Evolution this two and a half 
hours after the initial call. I think if this was a significant issue, then Mr O would have told 
Evolution about it earlier. After four hours, Mr O cancelled  the callout. I cant see that he 
would have done this if the alarm  was still sounding.  So I havent consistent  evidence to 
show that Evolution had reason to prioritise the callout. 
I can understand that waiting for Evolutions  responses to his callouts caused  disruption to 
Mr Os plans and caused him stress. I think four hours is a long time to wait for a response.  
And I can see that Evolution  says this occurs  rarely. But I cant say that Evolution should  
have responded  sooner as this isnt provided  by the policy terms and conditions. And I cant  
say that Evolution  acted  unfairly or unreasonably in not prioritising Mr O as I cant see that it 
had reason to do this. So I dont require Evolution to pay Mr O any compensation. 
Mr O wanted a refund of his premium. But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable 
because Evolution  attended one callout  and so Mr O made use of his policy.  Mr O disagreed 
that Evolution attended, as it said it did, after he cancelled the second callout. I havent any 
evidence to say what happened on this occasion. But I dont think  this affects the outcome of 
Mr Os complaint as hed already agreed  to cancel the callout. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9907250