K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that it took far too long for U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) to ensure repairs to 
his car were done  after he made  a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background 
Mr Gs car was stolen in June 2018.  It was recovered but wasnt  returned  to him by UKIs 
approved repairer  until January 2019. He says he was told several times the car was ready  
when it wasnt. Mr G wasnt satisfied with the courtesy car he got from the repairer. And he 
didnt think he should have to pay the policy excess, given the very long delay hed faced. 
UKI told Mr G that the repairer wasnt at fault, as the delay was caused  by parts not being  
available from the manufacturer.  It said the excess was payable under the policy  and that 
Mr G was only entitled to a standard courtesy  car. UKI noted 12 days  of inaction on its part 
early on, so it paid for 12 days hire for Mr G. Later  on it accepted  that it or the repairer could 
have kept him better updated  and managed  his expectations, so it offered him £250.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint. He said it took almost eight months  
for the car to be repaired (including  a month  at the end when it had to be returned to the 
repairer). He thought the delay was unacceptable. He noted  that the parts were ordered just 
after the repairer first got the car. He thought the repairer should have tried to source  the 
parts from another supplier. Alternatively  he thought it could have fitted second-hand parts 
as a temporary fix. And he said UKI could  have considered writing off the car. As in his 
opinion UKI had allowed the delay  to happen,  he thought  it should  pay Mr G a further £250. 
UKI queried  the award.  It said it couldnt  have used another manufacturers parts and that as 
the car was repairable it couldnt write it off. It asked for a review of the complaint by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
UKIs repairer didnt  get Mr Gs car until the third week of July 2018, over a month after it 
was stolen, then recovered by the police, examined  and released. The repairer had started 
work on the car and had ordered  parts by 25 July 2018.  
The repairers notes  show that in August 2018 the manufacturer said a wiring  loom wouldnt 
be available until 8 October 2018. The notes  say Mr G was satisfied  with that two-month  
delay at the time. But the delivery date was then delayed for a week,  and the loom  didnt 
arrive until the end of October 2018.  
The lock set was further delayed, and the wrong handbrake control unit arrived from the 
manufacturer. Its replacement didnt  arrive  until 23 November 2018. It had to be fitted, and 
then coded by a dealership garage. On 7 December 2018 the car was back  with UKIs 
repairer. A week later the repairer told Mr G the dealership garage would now have to fit 
locks and carry out coding.  On 19 December 2018  the dealership garage told the repairer 
the spare key didnt  work, so a new one would have to be ordered, plus another part. But 
UKI wasnt asked for authorisation  until 31 December 2018. The new key was ordered and 
arrived on 14 January  2019. But the dealership  garage then had to order a further part.    
Ref: DRN92325012As far as I can see, Mr G didnt complain to UKI about the car being returned  to him in 
January 2019  with cosmetic issues. It seems he contacted the repairer  directly,  and it dealt 
with them.  So I dont  think that can be treated as part of this complaint. 
I think the repairer had the car for around five months, during which I dont think Mr G can 
show that it or UKI could have done  anything to speed up the delivery of the parts.  Based on 
the details Ive seen, it seems the problem wasnt with a supplier in the UK. The 
manufacturer didnt  have  the parts at the time they were needed. And it seems  to have had 
problems giving the repairer  reliable  times  for their delivery. 
I think theres evidence that there were some  delays by the repairer  - and it doesnt always  
seem to have been fully on top of the job. For example, on 19 November 2018 the job notes  
say car 90% fitted just waiting a few bits and then full val). It seems  a text was sent to Mr G 
about that, when in fact some parts were still awaited and the car was going  to have to go to 
the dealership  garage after that. And had UKI been asked to authorise a new key straight  
away in December 2018, it would have been ordered and perhaps fitted two weeks earlier.  
And it isnt clear that the repairer made  sure the car was sent to the dealership  garage  
promptly. The notes show it needed to go the garage on 26 November 2018, but didnt 
actually go until a week later. At that point  the repairer seems to have given Mr G the 
impression that all the work was done  - and the valeting took place on 10 December 2018. 
But three days later, Mr G was told the locks and coding still had to be done.       
The car wasnt assessed as a write-off.  As it was repairable,  I think  it was reasonable to wait 
for the necessary parts. As there  was no suggestion they were permanently  unavailable, I 
dont think there was a basis  for UKI to treat the car as a total loss. I dont think  a temporary 
fix would  have been appropriate, given  that approved repairers use new parts  and the work 
is guaranteed  once  completed.  Unfortunately,  that made a very long wait for Mr G inevitable,  
although as Ive said above,  I think it should probably have been a little shorter  than it was.   
Mr G had a hire car until 1 August 2018.  The policy only provided for a standard  courtesy 
car, which is what Mr G got from then on, as he wasnt  entitled to a like-for-like vehicle. From 
the notes on the file, it looks as though  the repairer had larger courtesy  cars than the one he 
was given. He asked for one more than once.  In mid-October he was promised a call when 
one of them came  in, but it looks  as though  that didnt happen. Around a week later, the 
repairer called Mr G (unsuccessfully)  as a larger car had become available. There  are no 
notes after that to say that any further attempts were  made to change  the car Mr G had. If 
thats the case, I dont think the repairer should  have  let the matter  slip.    
I think if Mr G had been given a better courtesy car (even from October  2018  onwards) the 
impact on him of the delay in repairing his own car would have been  far less. In my view it 
should have been a priority for the repairer  to ensure that happened.  I also think  UKI could 
have offered Mr G a hire car (as a gesture of goodwill) for part of the period, once it became 
clear that he was having to wait an excessive amount  of time for the repairs to be done.    
UKI accepted that it and the repairer could have  done more to manage Mr Gs expectations 
and it offered him £250 for that. I think the delay in getting parts was largely out of the 
repairers control. But I think it could have  acted more  quickly at times  on the matters that 
were within its remit. And I think it should  have  ensured that Mr G got a better courtesy  car 
as soon as that was possible. Taking  everything into account,  in my opinion it would be 
reasonable for UKI to pay Mr G a further £100 compensation.  
Ref: DRN92325013I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. UKI accepted them.  Mr G didnt 
comment at all.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI accepted my provisional view, and Mr G made no comment, I dont think theres any 
reason to depart from it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and to require 
U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr G a further £100 for distress  and inconvenience (£350 in 
total). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9232501