K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1992.
The policy would have cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs M owed on her store card and it 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs M couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided an 
element of life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs M says she was led to believe that the policy was 
compulsory and that the credit would be rejected if the PPI wasnt  taken out.
FICL says Mrs M took out the PPI over the phone.  Due to the time that has passed  since the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising.  
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mrs M during that phone  call. But from what  we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Mrs M for her agreement to add the policy to her account.  
Mrs M had already had the card for several  years before the PPI was added  to the account 
so I think it would have  been clear that the PPI was not compulsory to the credit.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that FICL  made  it 
clear the policy  was optional and Mrs M chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if 
she didnt want it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M and, as I havent  seen anything to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely to be right. So it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make  sure it gave Mrs M clear enough 
information about the policy to enable her to decide  for herself  if she should take the policy.
Ref: DRN90066832Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been, such as details about  the true cost of the policy.  But even if FICL had given her better 
or clearer information, I dont think it would have made a difference. I still think she would 
have taken out the policy. I say this because Mrs M was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt 
affected by any of the main limitations  to the cover, such  as having unusual working 
arrangements or a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Mrs M has told us that she would have been entitled  to full sick pay for six months from her 
employer if she was too ill to work. But this policy would have paid out 15% of the 
outstanding balance on the account for as long as she was off sick or until the balance was 
paid  whichever  came first. And this would  be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, 
any sick pay she would receive. It would also provide cover for the same benefit if Mrs M 
was to lose her job. As Mrs M doesnt appear to have had any other means  with which  to 
meet her repayments  if she wasnt working, I think this could have provided a useful benefit 
to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs M has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9006683