K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has charged him a cash  transaction fee 
and interest when he used his credit  card to pay off a finance agreement.
background
Mr H took out a finance agreement to pay for a new kitchen. He says he had enough money 
in his account to pay the balance but used  his Tesco credit card as he thought there  would 
be some  protection  by doing so. Mr H says he was shocked to find out Tesco had charged  
him a cash  transaction fee of £344.24  and interest of £149.16. He also says that he didnt 
know that, as no cash  was involved,  that paying  off the agreement  would be classed as a 
cash transaction. Mr H says he has no recollection  of Tesco sending him a notice telling him 
that these types  of transactions would be classed in this way and says Tesco  shouldve  
contacted him before  approving the transaction to warn him about the charges.
Tesco says its not made  a mistake and is entitled to change the account terms and 
conditions with notice  being given. It says it sent Mr H by e-mail, a notice setting out what 
type of transaction is now classed as a cash transaction and also placed a notice of those 
changes on Mr Hs April 2018 statement. Tesco says it has no record of the e-mail being 
returned. So it says its not made a mistake by making the charge or applying  interest.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He thought  Tesco was 
entitled under the account terms and conditions to make changes  to the agreement He 
thought Tesco had e-mailed those changes to Mr H as well as notifying him on the April 
statement. The adjudicator didnt think Tesco had made a mistake by applying the charges 
and interest. He also didnt think it reasonable to have expected Tesco  to have contacted  Mr 
H before  he made the payment.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says hes used his Tesco  credit  card for 15 years as the 
primary method of payment for his bills. He says hes been  contacted  on numerous 
occasions by Tesco about transactions and believes he shouldve  been contacted about this 
one. He also says the interpretation  that this transaction  was a cash  transaction is obscure 
as no cash changed  hands. Mr H would like this money refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for largely the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision. I also appreciate how strongly he feels  about whats  happened 
and his frustration  as he has held his Tesco credit  card for many  years.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs credit card which  I think Mr H wouldve 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And I find that Tesco  is entitled under those terms 
and conditions to make changes to the agreement provided that sufficient notice is given. Im 
satisfied that such  notice was given in April 2018 that Tesco  was now treating, as in this 
case,  payments  for finance agreements and loans as cash transactions  and so they would 
be subject to a fee and interest.
I appreciate Mr H doesnt recall receiving  the notice about the changes. But Ive looked at 
Tescos records  and Im satisfied the notice was e-mailed to Mr H and the e-mail wasnt  
returned. Im also satisfied that details of the notice were displayed  prominently on Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN90595502April 2018 statement. So in those circumstances  I dont think  Tesco  couldve done any more 
to make Mr H aware of those changes. And as Im satisfied those changes were correctly  
made and notified  to Mr H I dont  think Tesco  made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying  
the cash transaction fee and interest.
I appreciate Mr H says that Tesco shouldve contacted him and considered blocking the 
account. But Im satisfied that those sorts  of decisions  are for a business to make  when  
exercising its commercial  judgement. I dont  think it reasonable to expect  a business to 
monitor spending in that way and think Tesco  would reasonably have assumed that Mr H 
had received details the of the account changes and had made a decision to pay off his debt 
in this way.
I also think its up to a business to decide how it defines a cash transaction and in any event 
I think the amended  terms and conditions make clear that this sort of payment  is classed as 
a cash transaction.
I understand Mr Hs frustration here but overall  Im satisfied that Tesco hasnt  made a 
mistake. So I cant fairly order  it to repay  the interest or transaction  fee.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9059550