K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a four payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1997, 
1998, 1999 and 2000. All the policies were taken  out alongside loans. Mr W says Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of each sale as well as the PPI policies benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out for each sale. Ill explain why.
The 1997,  1998 and 2000 sales  all took place by post. Nationwide has only been able to 
provide the application  form from 1997. This form has a separate  section called 
Protecting Your Repayments and Mr W was given the option to tick Yes or No to the 
cover. On his form the Yes box has been  selected. indicating that he wanted the cover.  
There was also an option to decline this cover. So, taking everything into account, I think 
its more likely that Mr W knew the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide the application forms for the 1998  and 2000 
sales which he also took out by postal application.  It has however, provided the loan 
agreements which all have a separate section  for Optional Credit Insurance . Mr W has 
Ref: DRN93930712signed all of these  agreements. Nationwide  has also provided a sample application for 
the 1998 sale which has a section about PPI. Looking at all this evidence, I think  its most 
likely Mr W knew the policies were optional and he agreed to take them out.
The 1999  sale took place during a phone call. Nationwide no longer has a recording of 
the call  I dont  think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy  was sold. But it 
does mean  I have limited  information available, so I have to decide what  I think  is more  
likely based  on the available evidence and wider circumstances. Nationwide has 
provided a copy of the paperwork  Mr W completed  following this phone  call. Within this I 
can see there is a separate section detailing Optional Credit Insurance.  I think  its likely  
this agreement wouldve  reflected the discussions Mr W had with the Nationwide 
representative and if Mr W wasnt sure about anything within the agreement he wouldve 
had an opportunity to raise questions before signing it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policies were 
optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the any of the PPI policies to Mr W - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable  for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough 
clear and timely information  so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI on each occasion  
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
W. Although Mr W says he had a medical  condition  when each of the PPI policies were 
taken out I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusions 
in each policy wouldve caused him to change his mind  about taking out the policy.  
I say this because  Mr W hasnt  told us of any on-going issues this health condition 
caused him. It seems  it was dealt with at the time and based on what  Mr W has said it 
hasnt resulted in him taking extended periods  of time off work. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems in any of the policies. 
It also looks like they were  affordable   so it seems like they would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont  think Mr W would have declined  the 
cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have  still taken out each PPI policy. They  were all 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think the policies could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given Mr Ws circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that he would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN93930713I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular  case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9393071