K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) shouldnt have lent to him.
background
Mr N took out a loan with Likely Loans  in March 2018. The loan was for £2,000,  with a term 
of 36 months and monthly repayments  of £121.14.  The total amount repayable was 
therefore £4,361.04.
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ns complaint but she didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mr N 
didnt agree and explained some of his expenditure (particularly credit  commitments) at the 
time. As there was no agreement, Mr Ns complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible lending  - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Likely Loans needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay  this loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
From the information Likely Loans  has provided,  it seems it asked Mr N about his income 
and residential  status.  Likely Loans  has recorded  that Mr N said his annual income was 
£27,100 and that he lived with his parents.  Likely  Loans also carried out a credit  check.  
Likely Loans has provided some information about  this credit check   although what it has 
provided from the point  of application only appears to be a brief summary.  This brief 
summary says that Mr N had total debts of £5,300, with nine active accounts. Likely Loans 
has also provided a more detailed credit history  from November 2018 (some  eight months  
after the loan application)  and Ive also taken this into account  as it may provide some  
insight into what else Likely Loans would have (or perhaps should  have)  known about Mr Ns 
indebtedness at the point  of application.
Based on the above, I dont think Likely Loans affordability checks were  proportionate. Mr N 
was applying for a loan over a term of three years and although the monthly  repayments  
were low as a percentage of Mr Ns income, Likely Loans wouldve known Mr N had a 
number of existing  credit commitments hed have to maintain. And although Mr Ns 
residential status was recorded as living with parents, that wouldnt mean  Likely Loans 
could fairly  assume  hed have no living costs  and Likely Loans hasnt shown us if it even 
made any kind of estimation about  what these might  be. Nor has it shown  this service what  it 
considers Mr Ns overall expenditure might have been (including ongoing credit 
commitments). Likely  Loans appears  to have carried out a very light touch affordability 
assessment and I dont  think  that that was proportionate for a loan which  needed to be 
sustainably affordable for a period of three years.
With this in mind, Ive looked  at what I think proportionate checks  would likely have shown. 
Ive considered what I think Likely Loans wouldve seen had it taken  steps to obtain more 
Ref: DRN95036002detailed information  about Mr Ns expenditure  particularly his credit  commitments. Im 
satisfied it was fair for Likely Loans  to rely on what Mr N told it about his income  and 
residential status. The information provided by Mr N does not suggested  he exaggerated his 
income.
Mr N has provided information suggesting  his monthly credit commitments before entering 
into his agreement with Likely  Loans  were over £1,300. I can appreciate how and why Mr N 
came to this figure  its not a wholly  unreasonable representation  of his circumstances. But 
in my view,  I dont think its more likely than not that proportionate checks would have 
resulted in a credit commitments figure this high. In saying this, Ive taken into account 
Mr Ns testimony,  the bank statements hes provided and the more  detailed credit  history  
information provided by Likely Loans.
I think its fair to say even  proportionate checks wouldnt have revealed everything about  
Mr Ns expenditure  including his credit  commitments.  Not all of the credit  commitments 
Mr N mentions appear even on the more detailed credit check  Likely  Loans has provided 
and so I dont  think even a more thorough check would have provided a complete picture of 
Mr Ns circumstances. A number of the payday loans Mr N mentions  and has provided 
evidence of dont  appear on Likely Loans credit check, for example.  And some  of the larger  
loans are taken out and repaid within one day  which might explain why Mr Ns overall level 
of indebtedness  appeared to be fairly low when Likely  Loans  carried out its credit check.
And while I have reviewed Mr Ns bank statements to get a better idea of his circumstances, 
Im not suggesting that this is exactly what Likely Loans ought  to have done.
So Ive taken a holistic view of Mr Ns circumstances   looking at the expenditure I think 
Likely Loans ought reasonably to have taken into account or made  further enquiries about.  
Ive taken into account the loans  and credit cards  which appear on Likely Loans more  
detailed credit search  but not everything  Ive seen on Mr Ns bank statements, because,  as 
Ive said, even proportionate checks for this loan wouldnt necessarily have accounted  for 
every penny  of Mr Ns expenditure.
Having done this, Ive concluded  that proportionate  checks would still on balance have 
suggested that this loan was sustainably affordable for Mr N. In reality,  I can see from Mr Ns 
bank statements that this may not have been the case  but I dont think I can say 
Likely Loans ought to have been  aware  of all of the expenditure shown on the bank 
statements  particularly  some of the short-term  loans which appear to have been repaid or 
taken out in close proximity to the loan from Likely Loans.
I can understand why this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr N. But for the reasons Ive 
given above, I dont think proportionate  checks would likely have suggested this loan was 
unaffordable for him  and so I do not uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against OAKBROOK FINANCE 
LIMITED.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020
Ref: DRN95036003Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9503600