K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mrs A has made  a complaint  about  the service  Mrs A received from Union 
Reiseversicherung AG when she made a claim on her travel  insurance policy. The estate is 
represented by Ms S, and I shall refer to all submissions being  made  by her. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
of my provisional decision and it forms part of this, my final decision. 
Mrs A was on holiday with her friend, Ms M, when she became unwell. Sadly she passed  
away a few days later. The estate of the late Mrs A is unhappy with the level of service she 
received from URV.  
In my provisional decision I explained  that I was intending to uphold  this complaint because, 
in summary, I thought  there had been some delays  in handling  the claim and there were 
occasions where URV could have been proactive,  particularly in relation to communication 
with Mrs A and Ms M. 
I said that I was intending  to award  a total of £1,500 compensation to reflect  the distress  and 
inconvenience Mrs A experienced as a result  of those failings. I asked URV and Ms S to let 
me know if they had any further information they wanted me to consider. 
Ms S responded with further comments. She said that she was relieved the complaint had 
finally been recognised but the award  seemed unduly low. So she asked for this to be 
reconsidered. 
Ms S also said that she didnt believe it was reasonable to accept URVs position about the 
calls to the treating  hospital. This relates  to a factual dispute between  URV and Ms S. URV 
said it repeatedly tried to contact the treating hospital, including  the doctor trying to call via 
his mobile, whereas the treating hospital  says they didnt receive any contact from URV.  
Ms S also said this information  conflicted with another case where URV have said their 
doctors didnt use mobile phones. 
URV provided a lengthy response  to my provisional  decision. In summary  they said: 
There was no missed  opportunity to repatriate Mrs A  she was never fit to fly 
As Mrs A wasnt fit to fly the very short delays  I identified  had no bearing on the 
outcome of the case 
I have been  overly and unfairly critical of URV in this case  tasks  were promptly  
undertaken and resulted in only very short delays
The claim form wasnt attached to an email sent but it was promptly resent when Ms 
M brought this to URVs attention  this is wholly irrelevant to the issue  of Mrs As 
medical condition  at the time or URVs decision not to repatriate Mrs A.
It is overly  critical to reprimand URV for not including information about  patients 
having to pay for water  on their file as it is not relevant to the quality of care Mrs A 
was receiving 
Ref: DRN99418992Some of the dates in my provisional decision seemed to be out by a day. They 
clarified the consent form was sent to Mrs A on 21 September  at 1447 and that at 
0633 the following morning Ms M emailed asking for the claim form which was 
promptly sent to her 
The delay in translating the medical  report didnt have any impact  on the case   
URVs medical team had already identified this as a complex and severe case  and 
ultimately the translated report didnt change  that 
It would  be more  accurate to state that it took two and a half days,  rather than around 
three days, for URV to translate and review the medical report. Mrs A wasnt 
medically stable enough  to be repatriated  and this position didnt change
Whilst the majority of contact was driven by Ms M there was daily contact and often  
little need to update  her although it acknowledges that going  the extra  mile for Ms M 
would have offered  her some support 
It doesnt accept  there were  unnecessary  delays  in this case  and ultimately this had 
no bearing on the outcome of the case or the decision not to repatriate
The insurance contract is one of financial  indemnification - there  was no contractual  
obligation upon URV to explore reasonable options to assist  Mrs A.
There is no evidence to suggest that Mrs A was in a place which  didnt have the right 
facilities to help her  this is an erroneous conclusion which isnt supported by the 
facts 
URV doesnt accept  that anything went wrong  during the period of time Mrs A was in 
hospital  the facts  dont support such a conclusion
URV has apologised for the distress caused by sending a letter to Mrs A after she 
died and acknowledges this was highly distressing for the family
URV is content to pay the estate £1,500 to reflect  the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by the absence  of proactive communications.  URV said it regretted  that 
Mrs As family had been so distressed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides  that a direction may require the respondent, here URV,  to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers  just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken. 
The policy terms say: 
Ref: DRN99418993We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for the necessary and 
reasonable costs  as a result of you becoming  ill, being injured or dying during your 
trip. This includes:
1.Emergency medical, surgical and hospital  treatment  and ambulance costs
2.Emergency dental treatment as long as it is for the immediate relief of pain only
3.The cost of your return to the United Kingdom  earlier than planned if approved  by 
Emergency Assistance Facilities and this is deemed to be a medical necessity.
Please note:  In the event  of your injury or illness we reserve the  right to relocate  you from 
one hospital to another and/or  arrange for your repatriation to the  United Kingdom at any 
time during the trip.  We will do this  if in the opinion of the doctor  in attendance or  
Emergency Assistance  Facilities you can be moved safely and/or travel  safely to the United  
Kingdom to continue  treatment.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD)  includes the Regulators  guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses ("the Principles")  and the detailed  rules 
require respectively of providers  and distributors of financial  services   in certain 
circumstances to treat customers  fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the 
impact of their action, or inaction,  on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the provision 
of the service. 
Ill now explain what this means for the case of the late Mrs A. 
I wont refer to all the points that the parties made  in response  to my provisional decision, 
only those that I consider  to be relevant to my decision. 
Im upholding this complaint as the further representations from both parties havent 
changed my thoughts about the overall outcome for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
Ref: DRN99418994the consent and claim  forms
URV stated  that some  of the dates in my provisional  decision appeared to be day out. In my 
provisional decision I said: 
URV were in possession  of both signed consent and claim forms by the evening of 22 
September, although I think  its most  likely they had received the consent form on the 
evening of 21 September. URV  didnt request medical records  from Mrs As GP until the 
afternoon of 24 September, although  the surgery had been closed for the weekend. 
However, taking into account  what URV knew about Mrs As condition, I think it would  
have been reasonable  to action this as a priority once  the surgery had reopened after the 
weekend. 
In response URV said the consent  form was sent to Mrs A on 21 September at 1447  but the 
claim form wasnt attached. I can see that at 0633  the following morning Ms M emailed to 
say she had sent the consent form back the previous evening but that she didnt have the 
claim form. It was sent to her at 0834.  
URV acknowledges this was an oversight but says that it only caused a short delay and is 
wholly irrelevant to the issue of Mrs As medical condition at the time.  However,  I remain  of 
the view that its disappointing the claim form, a key document, was omitted from the original  
email sent by the emergency assistance  team.  
URV hasnt  provided  specific details  of the time that the consent  form was received in their 
response and its not clear from their file notes. The information I had led me to conclude it 
was most likely that the consent form had been  received on the evening of the 21 
September. URV has clarified in their response that the consent  form was signed on behalf 
of Mrs A and returned on that evening. 
URV has also clarified that they first contacted  Mrs As GP on the 22 September  at 1438.  
Theyve not provided a copy of the email within their response. However, I can see from the 
document and event  history that two documents were uploaded  at 1439 on URVs system. 
However, it wasnt evident to me from URVs file, prior to this explanation, that this was a 
request for the medical records. 
I say that because the document and event  history simply  records that two documents  were 
uploaded onto their system which related to Mrs A and referred to CCF.pdf  and email  with 
CCF.pdf. It doesnt explain what the contents  were  or who the email was sent to or received 
from. Nor is there  any corresponding note to say that the medical records have been 
requested from the GP. 
claim handling
URV says that Ive been overly critical  of the information it captured  during the calls with 
Ms M, where she described the conditions  as unbelievable and talked about patients having 
to buy water even in the emergency department. 
I find it surprising that URV considers this to be totally irrelevant to the quality of care being 
provided to Mrs G, bearing in mind  that she was suffering from heart failure  and was 
extremely unwell. 
Ref: DRN99418995Whilst URV isnt responsible for the quality of care overseas I remain  of the view that such  
details gave important  context to the urgency with which Mrs As claim ought  to have been 
progressed  hence the reason it was disappointing  that URV failed to capture it. 
delays
URV says that the delays Ive referenced  in my provisional decision amount to short  delays 
which had no bearing on the ultimate outcome for Mrs A. Nowhere in my provisional decision  
did I suggest that to be the case. 
Rather, I concluded there were some delays  that I didnt think were necessary including  not 
chasing the medical records  first thing after the weekend  and it taking  a long time for the 
medical report to be uploaded,  translated  and reviewed. URV said in response to my 
provisional decision that it was more accurate to say this took around two and half days  
rather than around three. 
Ive taken into account what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time of the claim. 
The timescales in this case do not reflect what our service  typically sees  in cases of this 
nature  which URV acknowledges was a case regarded by their medical team as complex 
and severe. 
In my experience such complex and severe  cases typically  incite a more proactive approach, 
particularly in relation to communication with the consumer and would involve the 
expeditious translation and review of medical  evidence upon receipt of it. I note that URV 
hasnt commented  further on the impact of their systems crashing or the availability of their 
doctors on delays. 
Im not persuaded by URVs representations that the timescales were  reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of this case.  
contact with Ms M and Mrs A
URV has accepted  that they could  have done more  in this respect but pointed  out that whilst 
communication was driven by Ms M there was daily contact. This doesnt change  my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs A was extremely  unwell. And I can appreciate how frustrating it was to have  to chase 
URV for updates and information. For the reasons Ive set out above,  and in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think that was an acceptable level of service in the circumstances of this 
case. 
phone calls to the treating  hospital
Theres conflicting evidence on this point about whether URV  were calling the hospital  so I 
needed to make a decision about what is most  likely to have happened. I balanced the 
testimony of the treating  hospital doctor  against the records  held by URV. 
I remain persuaded that URV have given  an adequate explanation for not being able to 
provide the call recordings and that it was unlikely the doctor  would have made a note of the 
calls if hed not being making them. Whilst I cant know  for certain the calls were made I think 
its most  likely, on balance,  they were. 
Ref: DRN99418996Ms S said URVs assertion that their doctor  was using  a mobile phone conflicted with 
information on another case. Whilst I can appreciate Ms Ss concern on this point its my role 
to consider the evidence provided to me in this case.  
repatriation 
URVs response included a number of references  to the fact that Mrs A wasnt  ever 
medically stable enough  to be repatriated  and stated that there was no missed opportunity 
to get her home.  That wasnt a conclusion I reached within my provisional decision. 
I explained it wasnt within my remit to decide  whether,  or to what extent, URVs actions 
contributed to Mrs As death. Nor did I reach  any conclusion about  whether Mrs A was at any 
point in time fit to fly or indicate  I thought  it was medically safe for her to do so. 
distress and inconvenience 
Within my findings I did say Mrs A was in a vulnerable situation and was fully aware  that she 
was somewhere which didnt have  the right facilities to help her. URV says that is an 
erroneous conclusion, not supported by the facts  and that I did not reference  this elsewhere 
in my provisional decision.  
My comments on this point were made within the context of determining the level of distress 
and inconvenience  Mrs A experienced as a result of poor service and delays. Within  my 
decision I referred to various calls.  URV  will be aware of the contents  of those calls, having  
obtained transcripts of them.
To clarify, when Ms M contacted URV she explained that Mrs As heart  was in a very bad 
state. In other calls she explained the treating hospital thought Mrs A needed exploratory 
surgery to determine  the cause, which they didnt have the facilities  to do. She explained the 
hospital couldnt carry out further investigations, it was a small hospital and she described 
the conditions  as appalling.  
URVs notes also say their initial plans were to take Mrs A to the mainland. I can also see 
that the medical report explained Mrs A needed a angiography (a procedure which would 
determine whether  the arteries were blocked and the extent of the blockage). Thats broadly 
consistent with what Ms M told URV during a call on the 22 September when she told them 
the hospital thought  Mrs A needed an angioplasty  but didnt have the facilities  to do further 
investigations. 
In my provisional decision I also referred  to calls between  Mrs A and URV. And I referred to 
a further conversation with Ms M where  she described that Mrs A had found the contact  with 
URV as stressful.  
Taking all of the above into account I dont think its unreasonable to conclude  Mrs A was 
aware she was somewhere that didnt have  the right facilities to help her. Whilst I accept  that 
URV isnt responsible for the level of care in the hospital I do think this is important context to 
the issue of handling the claim promptly and the level of communication with Ms M and 
Mrs A.  
Ref: DRN99418997putting things right
I remain of the view that the level of service Mrs A received from URV  during her time in 
hospital wasnt of an acceptable standard. Thats why I concluded something had gone 
wrong during  the time Mrs A spent in hospital, which URV needed to put right.  They 
acknowledged they could have done more in relation to the communication  with Mrs A and 
Ms M and agreed to pay the £1,500. 
Ms S feels that £1,500  is an unduly  low award  and I have empathy for her position on this 
point. But this reward reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mrs A during the short  period 
of time she was in hospital before she sadly passed  away. This amount falls within  the 
substantial range for our service and I remain satisfied  it fairly reflects  the trouble and upset 
caused. 
As I outlined  in my provisional decision its not within my remit to determine  whether, or to 
what extent, URVs  actions contributed  to Mrs As death. So for the reasons Ive set out 
above, and in my provisional decision I remain persuaded thats a fair and reasonable 
amount.  
my final decision
Im upholding the estate  of Mrs As complaint and directing Union Reiseversicherung AG to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined  above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms S, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs A, to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN99418998COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
The estate of the late Mrs A has made a complaint about the service Mrs A received from Union 
Reiseversicherung AG when she made a claim on her travel insurance  policy. The estate is 
represented by Ms S, and I shall refer to all submissions being made by her. 
background
Mrs A was on holiday with her friend, Ms M, on an island. On 21 September  2018 Mrs A was taken  
into hospital  and Ms M contacted Mrs As insurance company to explain the situation.  Mrs A sadly 
passed away  on 27 September  whilst  still in hospital.
Ms S made a complaint that URV failed to offer Mrs A emergency  assistance and left her in a hospital 
where she was unable to get the treatment she desperately needed. She told us they repeatedly 
asked for assistance, which was refused,  and said Mrs A should either  have been flown home  or 
taken to the mainland for treatment. Ms S also explained URV sent a letter  to Mrs A about  the 
settlement of her claim in October 2018, after shed died. 
URV issued a final response letter.  In summary, they said they had very limited information  about  Mrs 
As condition.  And, the information they did have suggested she was too ill to be moved. They said 
doctors in tourist resorts will tell the policyholder to get an insurer  to fly them home but their team has 
aviation specialists  who decide when its medically  safe to do so. URV concluded theyd acted in Mrs 
As best interests. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt uphold  the complaint. She was satisfied 
URV had attempted  to contact the hospital on a number of occasions  and when they received  the 
medical report it contained very limited  information.  So she didnt uphold  the complaint because  she 
didnt think there were  any unnecessary delays. 
Ms S didnt  agree and made a number  of representations. In summary,  she said: 
there had been unnecessary delays  
she didnt think URV had attempted  to contact the hospital  she provided  a letter from the 
cardiology department in relation to this
there ought to be concerns about the credibility  of URVs case  files and logs  she was 
concerned they werent complete or accurate
there were numerous  failings in the standard of service  Mrs A had received and she queried 
whether the actions taken by URV were acceptable  or reasonable
at no point did URV mention they were  trying to contact the treating doctor
there was a missed opportunity to move Mrs A as for a period of time she was removed from 
intensive care and placed  on the general ward
URV didnt have  a doctor  on site to review the medical report 
URV didnt contact  Ms M until after Mrs As death
As Ms S asked to appeal the investigators decision  the case was passed to me to make a decision.  
Ms S asked  for a hearing but I wrote to her explaining why I didnt think one was necessary.  
Ref: DRN99418999URV also made further detailed representations following the investigators view.  In summary they 
said: 
they took reasonable steps to assist  Mrs A and they arent responsible for the quality of care 
provided in the treating hospital
there is no proper basis for Ms Ss attack on the credibility of their case log files
they are entitled to take steps to validate the claim 
the medical team attempted to contact the hospital a number of times and there were no 
unreasonable delays
there was an error  in the translated medical  report but this made no difference  to the 
timescales because URV were aware of the correct date of admission
the medical team werent able to make  an immediate decision when they received the 
medical report because of a system crash. Once the system  was back up and running they 
reviewed the report
they shouldnt have written to Mrs A after her death  this was an administrative error  and 
they apologise for any upset caused
I asked both parties  for further information prior to making  my decision. I asked to be provided with:
confirmation the coroners  investigation had concluded and, if so, the outcome of it 
copies of all call recordings  between URV  and the treating  hospital
copies of all call recordings  between URV  and Mrs As General  Practitioner (GP)
further evidence of the calls Ive referred to above, for example a screenshot showing the 
number called in addition to the date, time and duration of the calls
I also arranged for our investigator  to obtain an independent  translation of the medical report  sent 
from the hospital to URV
Ms S explained that an autopsy  took place in the country where Mrs A had been on holiday and the 
cause of death was undetermined. She explained the coroner in the UK hadnt been able to carry out 
a second autopsy because, very sadly, Mrs As organs had been removed before her body  was 
returned to the UK. I can understand how highly distressing that must have  been for the family. 
URV provided the following further information: 
call log data,  call recordings and transcripts showing calls between URV and 
Mrs As GP surgery
confirmation their medical team use mobile phones  and internet based programmes or 
applications. So, they say its not always  possible to obtain copies  of the calls to the hospital  
or the call logs.  In this case the Doctor no longer has access  to the data on the phone. URV 
are attempting to locate evidence  in the form of mobile phone  records to demonstrate the 
calls were made. However, they commented that the calls were logged on their system and 
theres no reason  to question the credibility of their doctor,  who is a registered  medical 
practitioner and qualified barrister.  
So I now need to make  a decision. 
Ref: DRN994189910my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Its not for me to decide whether URVs actions, or any lack of them, contributed to Mrs As death as 
its not within  my remit to do so. Our service is an informal  dispute resolution service. So my role is to 
decide what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case   taking into account  any 
relevant law and industry guidance  and decide whether  a business has acted  fairly and reasonably. 
The relevant rules  and industry guidance  says that URV have a responsibility  to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly. Im not persuaded URV fulfilled  this responsibility in the circumstances of this 
case as I think there were delays in handling  the claim. I say that because: 
URV failed to send the claim form to Ms M as they said they would.  They resent it the 
following morning to her but this caused some delay;
During a call with Ms M on 22 September she told URV Mrs A needed an angioplasty and the 
hospital didnt have the facilities to carry out further investigations. This was noted  on the file. 
However, she went on to describe the facilities at the hospital as unbelievable noting  that 
shed even  had to pay for water for Mrs A on her admission to hospital. The information  about  
conditions at the hospital wasnt noted  on URVs  system  by the call-handler. Whilst URV isnt 
responsible for the quality  of care in a hospital overseas  I think this was important information 
which ought  to have been captured on the case file because  it was highly  relevant  to 
explaining the vulnerability and seriousness  of Mrs As ongoing situation;
 
URV were  in possession of both signed consent and claim forms by the evening of 22 
September, although I think its most likely they had received the consent  form on the evening 
of 21 September. URV didnt  request medical records from 
Mrs As GP until the afternoon of 24 September, although the surgery had been closed for the 
weekend. However, taking into account what URV  knew  about Mrs As condition, I think it 
would have  been  reasonable to action this as a priority once the surgery had reopened after 
the weekend; 
Im satisfied URV were  in contact with Mrs As local surgery in the UK. Theyve  provided call 
logs, recordings and transcripts  demonstrating they contacted the GP surgery a number of 
times on 24 September;  
The treating hospital  says there were no calls received from URV whereas URV  says the 
doctor from the medical team called three times on 22 September, three times on 24 
September and once  on 25 September. So, I need  to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
what is most likely to have happened. It is disappointing URV  arent  able to provide  copies of 
the calls or logs from their system demonstrating  when  the calls were made  and to which 
number. However,  contemporaneous notes were recorded on their case handling  system  
saying calls were attempted. And I think its unlikely the doctor wouldve  made  those  entries  if 
he hadnt  been attempting to call the hospital.  So, on balance, in this case  Im satisfied its 
most likely  URV were attempting to call the hospital as theyve described. However, I note 
that no call was attempted on 23 September despite URV offering a 24/7 service. I think  thats 
disappointing, given  the circumstances of this case, and the conditions outlined by Ms M; 
On 24 September the treating hospital sent a brief medical report to URV. This was sent at 
around 16.30. But it wasnt  uploaded  onto URVs  system until around 11.00 the next day. 
URVs doctor phoned  that same morning  to chase the treating hospital  for the report and the 
notes say he was told it had already been sent. It then took until around 17.00  for the report to 
be sent for translation which  was around 24 hours after the report  had first been received. So 
Im not satisfied URV acted promptly enough  on receipt of this very important information;
Ref: DRN994189911The translation was received at around 20.00 on 25 September,  so a few hours  after it had 
been requested. But it wasnt reviewed by a member  of the medical team until 27 September, 
by which time Mrs A had died. During a call with Ms M at the time URV  attributed the delay in 
the medical team reviewing the documents to there being  no doctor on-site  that day, although 
there was mention  of a system crash in other calls around that time. In their response  to our 
investigators view URV explained the medical team wasnt  in a position to make  an 
immediate assessment  because  of a system crash. They  said once the system was back  up 
and running the medical team reviewed the report.  Regardless of the cause of the delay I 
dont think this was a reasonable timescale  for the reasons Ill go on to explain; 
In total it took around three days for URV to translate and review the medical report, even 
though it was just a few lines long. I dont think this was a reasonable  timescale  given the 
vulnerability of Mrs As situation and the severity  of her condition.  Between the translation 
being requested and the case being reviewed by the medical team  
Ms M had phoned  with further information. She explained  Mrs A had heart failure  and was still 
in a critical condition  she went on to say the conditions were  appalling  and that friends  and 
family were  expected to support with patient care, to the extent that they hadnt provided  
water even in the Accident and Emergency  Department. I note URV didnt explore or consider 
other options for alternative assistance at that point in time,  for example nursing assistance or 
sending a local agent; 
URV accepts  there was an error in the translated medical report as it incorrectly said Mrs A 
had been admitted yesterday. The independent translation Ive obtained also confirms this 
was included in the translation in error. But I dont think this specifically impacted on how the 
claim progressed as the system  notes  made it clear  throughout that Mrs A had been admitted 
at a much earlier date.  And Ive seen no evidence to suggest URV inserted  this wording  
fraudulently. Rather  it seems more likely  to have been an error on the part of the translator 
theyd instructed;  
Ive listened to two calls between  URV and Mrs A which took place when she was in hospital. 
Initially she was told URV didnt have her medical  records.  But this wasnt correct, so the 
advisor called her back to clarify this. During one of the calls Mrs A described herself  as being 
in a state and said things werent  very clear. She sounds  upset and, at times,  confused.  Ms M 
then took a further  call from URV and explained Mrs A had found the calls stressful.  She was 
told that the usual  timescale was 24 hours for the medical team to review  it. That didnt 
happen  as Ive outlined above it took far longer to translate and review  the medical  report; 
I can see that the majority of the contact with URV was driven by Ms M chasing URV for 
updates and checking on the progress  of the claim.  I can understand how frustrating this must 
have been for Ms M and Mrs A. I think URV should  have been  more proactive in their 
communications with them and kept them better updated about  the progress of the claim  
given the circumstances;
I can understand how upsetting it must have been to receive a letter addressed to Mrs A after 
shed passed  away. Whilst this was an administrative  error this caused avoidable distress to 
the family. I dont have  the power to award  compensation to 
Ms M or Mrs As relatives as they arent  party  to Mrs As contract  of insurance with URV. 
However, I dont doubt that this was a highly distressing for them. So I entirely  understand 
their frustration and disappointment
putting things  right
Our powers are set by the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, in their Dispute  Resolution 
Rules. These rules say I can only consider complaints brought  to us by an eligible complaint. Mrs A 
was the policyholder  and the person for whose  benefit the policy was taken out. This means  Mrs A  
and now her estate  is the eligible complainant in this case.
Ref: DRN994189912Ms S isnt a policyholder herself and the policy  wasnt taken  out for her benefit. So she isnt an 
eligible complainant. As I only have  the power to award  compensation  to an eligible  complainant I 
cant make  an award to Ms M, Ms S, or other family members for the personal distress they 
experienced.
However, Ive identified  occasions where I think URV  didnt handle this claim promptly and could  have 
been more proactive.  As Ive outlined above the standard of care in a foreign hospital  isnt URVs 
responsibility. But in such circumstances I would have expected  URV to progress the claim as quickly  
as possible, to be proactive and explore reasonable options to assist Mrs A. The evidence Ive seen 
demonstrates there were unreasonable gaps in activity and the majority of the contact was driven by 
Mrs A and Ms M.
Im satisfied Mrs A experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of the delays she experienced 
and the service she received. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into account Ms Ms evidence and 
how Mrs A presented during calls with URV. She was in a vulnerable situation and was fully aware 
that she was somewhere  which didnt  have  the right facilities to help her. 
Im intending  to award £1,500 compensation  to reflect  the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  
Mrs A experienced from the point she made her claim  until her death.  During this time she was very 
unwell and was waiting for URV to obtain information and review  it. I think  this took longer than it 
should in the circumstances. 
I appreciate the amount  of compensation  Im awarding may not reflect  what  Mrs As family feel is fair 
 theyve lost a loved one and believe URVs  actions contributed to that loss. As I outlined at the 
beginning of my decision its not within my remit to make a finding of fact on that issue.  However, I do 
think URV need to pay compensation  to reflect what  went wrong during the period of time Mrs A was 
in hospital. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint. URV and Ms S should let me know by 2 July 2019 if they have 
any further information  which may make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9941899