K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited have handled his motor  insurance 
claim. He doesnt  think its fair that theyve  held him responsible for the damage caused to 
the third partys car.
background
Mr P reversed into a parked car in September 2017. He noticed  damage to the parked car 
around the area of impact  and left a note for the owner.  The note said I have managed to 
put a small dent in the rear side of your car and Mr P offered to pay for the repairs. The third 
party obtained a quote for the repairs and, on 13 October, told Mr P this would be £1,867.26. 
On 16 October Mr P wrote to the third party telling him that, on reflection, he didnt  think  the 
accident had caused the dent.
The third party claimed through  Mr Ps insurance  and Aviva agreed to settle this as a fault  
claim  Mr P was held responsible for the damage caused. Aviva  paid £1,195.67 to settle 
the claim.  Mr P is unhappy because he doesnt  feel that his car couldve  caused damage to 
the third partys car in a low speed  collision, without there being  any damage to his car. He 
also feels that, given  the location  of the dent,  it couldnt have been caused by his car and 
must have  been  there before the accident happened.
Our adjudicator found Aviva had acted  reasonably  by accepting  liability  for the damage 
caused. She felt the policy terms allowed them to make this decision,  whether Mr P agreed  
with the outcome or not. She didnt  think Aviva had grounds to challenge or dispute the claim 
because Mr P had admitted reversing into the third partys car and causing damage. 
She didnt  think that Mr P challenging  the claim wouldve  provided  hard evidence  for Aviva to 
consider and to defend the claim.  Aviva  had offered Mr P the option to buy back the claim  
pay them  the £1,195.67 they paid out which would remove the claim from his record  and 
restore his no claims discount. The adjudicator  thought  this was fair and reasonable and 
didnt feel Aviva should do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said Aviva  had completely disregarded my 
detailed arguments   complete with photos and measurements  in which  I demonstrated 
beyond question that the dent could not have  been caused by my [car]. He also said Aviva 
didnt let him know what they were going to do and this meant he couldnt have asked them 
to pause while I took on the liability myself. Hes asked  that an ombudsman review  his 
complaint and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. It 
isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. Decisions on liability are best dealt with by 
the courts.
Ref: DRN97123322The terms of Mr Ps car insurance policy say that Aviva have full discretion in the conduct  of 
any proceedings or the settlement of any claim. Because of this Aviva didnt need Mr Ps 
agreement or approval to agree to settle  his claim on a fault basis. But I would expect them 
to base any decision on things such as:
The versions of events provided  by Mr P and the third party.
Evidence provided to support or challenge the versions of events.
Mr P admitted to reversing into the third partys car, and he admitted to causing damage. 
While he now says that he didnt  cause the dent,  in his 16 October 2017 letter to the third 
party he still admitted causing damage   he refers to this damage as scuff  marks. He also 
admitted in writing  to Aviva that hed caused  scuff  mark damage to the third partys  car. Even 
when making his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Mr P admitted that he 
caused scuff mark damage to the third partys  car.
In the face of this evidence, I think it was reasonable that Aviva settled the claim on the basis  
that Mr P was at fault  hed caused  the accident  and damaged the third partys car. I agree 
that Aviva  was acting  fairly when they believed they wouldnt  have had grounds to defend  
the matter in court, had it gone that far. 
I accept that Mr P doesnt agree  that he caused the dent to the third partys  car, and feels 
that the evidence he provided  to Aviva proves this. But this doesnt  alter the fact that he 
admitted to causing  the accident  and some damage. For these reasons I cant say that Aviva 
should remove the fault claim and reinstate Mr Ps no claims  discount.
Ive seen that the quote from the third partys garage  to repair  the dent was £1,867.26.  Ive 
also seen that Aviva settled that claim for £1,195.67,  with the work  being done by the same  
garage. With any accident there  can be more damage than can be seen with the naked  eye, 
so I cant say whether  the £1,195.67 was just for repairing the scuff mark damage or 
included repairing the dent as well. Either way, Aviva have offered Mr P the option  to buy 
back the claim, and I think its reasonable for them to make this offer.
Overall Im satisfied that Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. Their  
decision to accept full liability was made  with full regard to all of the evidence and 
circumstances of the accident,  and was taken in line with the terms of Mr Ps car insurance 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Aviva  Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712332