K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
 Mr S says PPI wasnt discussed  when  he took out the store  card, and that he wouldnt 
have bought the cover if it had been  offered.  I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mr S and the sales person when the policy was sold.  But the store  card 
application form Mr S signed included a separate section about PPI that was 
completed to show that he wanted  the cover. I accept its possible PPI wasnt  
discussed, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mr S may 
no longer remember  this. In addition, there is nothing on the form to suggest that taking 
the PPI was a condition of getting the store card. From  what Ive seen, I havent  been 
able to safely conclude that FICL didnt make Mr S aware that policy  was optional.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
his. That means  it didnt have to ask about  any employer benefits Mr S might have 
been entitled to.
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr S would have  been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  him buying  it.
Ref: DRN92346952my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234695