K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA), who provide her home insurance policy,  
refused to remove a record of an insurance claim she made, despite the claim being 
withdrawn the same  day before any work had been  carried out.
background
Mrs F has a home insurance policy  with AXA. Included within that policy is home assistance 
cover, but this is provided by another  insurer, who Ill call IC here.
Mrs F discovered a leak in one of her kitchen pipes and called IC to arrange  for someone to 
attend and fix it. A plumber attended but said he couldnt fix the pipe because he couldnt get 
proper access to it. He said Mrs F would need to arrange for Trace and Access  to be 
carried out first  a process which involves locating the leak and removing any obstacle that 
prevents accessing  it. The IC home emergency policy  didnt cover  this type of work.
However, Mrs Fs AXA home insurance  policy did cover this, so she phoned AXA to discuss  
how to arrange  this. At this point, AXA recorded this as a new claim.  After some discussions,  
Mrs F decided to arrange her own trace works and claim the costs back (less any applicable 
policy excess)  from AXA.
So Mrs F contacted IC again, and arranged and paid for a plumber from the same firm that 
attended initially to carry out the trace works.  Mrs F notified AXA,  and her claim with them  for 
the trace works was withdrawn.
When the plumber  attended a few days later, he confirmed trace works werent actually  
needed  he fixed the leak without carrying out any trace works. Mrs F was unhappy  the leak 
wasnt fixed during  the first visit and has raised a complaint against IC regarding  this which 
Im also considering separately.
Mrs F contacted AXA and asked them to remove the withdrawn  trace claim she made from 
their records, and from an industry database,  called CUE, that records  all insurance claims, 
as she was concerned  it may impact future premiums. However, AXA refused. Mrs F 
complained, but AXA said she had an intention  to claim at the time she first phoned  them. 
Whilst the claim is recorded as withdrawn, it will still remain recorded because of this.
Mrs F brought her complaint about  AXA to us. However, one of our investigators agreed  that 
AXA hadnt  done anything wrong by not removing  the record.  Unhappy  with this, Mrs F 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Its clear Mrs Fs complaints against AXA, and IC, are inextricably linked. I agree with Mrs F 
that had the IC plumber  fixed the leak during his first visit, which its clear he could and 
should have done, Mrs F wouldnt have needed  to contact AXA to discuss a trace  claim. It 
follows AXA would never have recorded details  of a claim  on their system, or on the 
insurance claims database. The fault here lies solely with the actions of ICs plumber, and I 
address the consequences of their actions  in my review of that particular complaint.
Ref: DRN97068582In this complaint,  however, I need to consider if AXA did anything wrong in the way they 
dealt with Mrs F  and I dont think they did. Its not in question Mrs F phoned  them shortly 
after the first IC plumber left to discuss a trace claim. Its also not in question this claim was 
withdrawn quickly afterwards. 
However, all insurance claims  made, settled, withdrawn  are generally recorded on the 
CUE insurance database. AXA say Mrs F had an intention to claim when she first phoned 
them, which is why theyve recorded  her claim on the database. Ive listened  to the call and I 
think AXA are correct   there  was an intention to make a claim at that moment in time.
And AXA has provided me with a copy of the insurance database record  in relation  to this 
claim. It records  the claim was related to a kitchen leak, and the claim was withdrawn, and 
so provides an accurate record of what happened. For this reason, I cant  say AXA has done  
anything wrong  here.
So, taking all of the above into account,  I wont be asking  AXA to do anything further, or take 
steps to remove their entry from the insurance  database.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9706858