K821x#15Complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  applied  increased interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft which caused financial difficulty. Hes unhappy with what 
Lloyds has agreed  to do to put things right for him.
Background 
Mr S complained about Lloyds changes to its overdraft pricing structure and said this led to 
him experiencing financial difficulty. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and 
thought that should  Lloyds rework Mr S account  to remove  the effect of all the interest fees 
and charges which were  added to his overdraft from August 2018. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Mr S outstanding  balance would 
reduce. But Mr S disagreed. He wanted  the interest, fees and charges paid to him and asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  And in an ideal  world, wed tell a business to put a consumer  in 
the position theyd now be in if they hadnt  been  given the credit  they shouldnt  have.
So where a business continued  to allow a consumer to use a credit facility  which  it should  
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any further  interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit  
from the point the lender ought  to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were  paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, the amount  Mr S will be left with an outstanding balance with a third-party debt 
purchaser even  though  hes been  refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So 
while Mr S has been left with a balance on his debt with the third-party  and he might be 
unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect  it to do here.
That said,  we do look at each case individually and on its own particular  merits. And while 
we have a general  approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit  it shouldnt have (such as here),  we can and will tell it to do 
something different  and/or something  more if theres  a strong reason to say thats  what  
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances  of that individual case. Mr S says 
Lloyds should  do something different here. He wants  the refunded interest fees and 
charges paid to him directly as Lloyds sold the debt to a third-party debt purchaser and he 
has other priority  debts.  
Ref: DRN92302122Ive thought about what Mr S has said and I sorry to hear that he is struggling financially. But 
a firm is only able to refund amounts to a customer that they have paid.  And Mr S didnt 
actually pay the interest,  fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added to his overdraft. 
That is why Mr S is still left with a balance to repay,  to the third-party debt purchaser, even 
after all adjustments have been  made. And while Im sympathetic to Mr S current financial 
position, as he never  paid the interest, fees and charges he now wants  Lloyds to pay him, I 
dont think it is fair and reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to give these funds to him. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed  to do to put 
things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything  more. As this is the case,  its up to Mr S to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Lloyds  offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed  
to do to put things  right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230212