K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained on behalf of herself  and the estate of Mr C. She says Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
for a mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 26 June  2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send 
me  so long as I received it by 26 July 2019.
Halifax didnt add any new evidence or arguments. Mrs C explained she still felt they didnt 
need PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C worked  hard and avoided  taking  on debts. And so I can 
understand why Mrs C may feel they didnt need  PPI. But as I explained in the provisional 
decision, without  PPI Mr and Mrs C couldve got in trouble with their mortgage had Mr C 
been off long-term  sick or lost his job  and these things can and do happen.  And if Mr and 
Mrs C fell behind on their mortgage payments, they couldve  lost their home. So it seems  
sensible for them to have insured Mr C to protect against that possibility. And Ive not seen 
any other reason  that the policy was mis-sold  to them.
So having  reconsidered  everything, Ive come to the same conclusion  as before  that I dont 
think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint about  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91297162COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr C. She says Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
In 1994, Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage without PPI. In 1996,  they took out a PPI policy alongside 
a further  advance.  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which didnt attract 
interest. It covered  Mr C in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the account has long since closed. So I think its 
understandable that neither side have the documents from the time. Indeed, under  data protection 
regulations, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Cs data rather  than hold onto it for too 
long. Mrs C doesnt remember discussing PPI, but I also think thats understandable given  just how 
long ago the sale was, and since buying insurance  is not often memorable. Ive thought  carefully 
about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have  been a very serious failing for Halifax to have added  the PPI without  Mr and Mrs Cs 
permission, or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no evidence  which 
shows thats what  Halifax  did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems of that sort with its sales 
process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax  to be able 
to produce evidence to defend itself now. Further,  Mr and Mrs C had already been given a mortgage  
without PPI two years  before taking out this policy, so its likely they wouldve  known they didnt  have 
to take out PPI for their secured borrowing. So I dont think  I can fairly conclude  that Halifax led 
Mr and Mrs C to believe  they had to have PPI, or added the policy  without their permission. I think its 
more likely  that it gave them a choice about buying  PPI and they chose to take it at the time  though 
I can certainly understand if Mrs C no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not certain whether  Halifax recommended the PPI here or not. The requirements were  stricter on 
Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs C and the late Mr C Ive assumed it did. That means  
Halifax had to check the PPI was right for them. And based on what  Ive seen  of their circumstances 
at the time,  I think  it was. For example,  it looks like Mr C was eligible for cover and he doesnt seem to 
have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.
I realise its difficult for Mrs C to give us detailed information about the late Mr Cs work situation and 
benefits from so long ago. His positions  not entirely clear, but from what Mrs Cs told us I understand 
that Mr C was enrolled in a benefits scheme through work, and couldve got sick pay and redundancy  
pay in addition to the very basic statutory  pay. But from what  I understand of this scheme, it wouldve 
only paid a proportion  of his usual earnings. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits, and it 
looks like it offered him more comprehensive cover  especially when his work benefits  reduced to a 
smaller proportion of his salary or ran out entirely.
Ref: DRN91297163 
I also understand Mr and Mrs C had some limited savings, but those wouldve only lasted for a 
relatively short time without PPI if they were needed  to cover some or all of Mr Cs income. And the 
PPI meant Mr and Mrs C could, in effect,  protect their savings and use them  for other things. Its worth 
bearing in mind that the mortgage was a significant commitment and that if Mr and Mrs C fell behind 
on their payments, they risked losing  their home. So it seems sensible that they insured Mr C  it 
looks like the policy couldve been useful in protecting their home  and giving them some peace of 
mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds. 
But as I explained above,  Mr C wasnt  affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover, and it 
couldve been  useful  for Mr and Mrs C in case something went wrong.  The policy was competitively 
priced given how much it would  pay out in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication  it was 
unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs C could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them  off 
taking out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Please could  Mrs C and Halifax send me any more information or comments to look at by 26 July 
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9129716