K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In July 2003, Mr and Mrs T took out a joint personal  loan and were  also sold a single 
premium PPI policy that was put in Mr Ts name only. Mr and Mrs T took out the loan and 
insurance during  a phone  call with a representative from Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  mis-sold  them the PPI policy. They say Nationwide applied  the 
PPI to their account without them knowing.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Here are my reasons:
 I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional  and they chose  
to have it. I say this because, although I cant be sure what was discussed during the 
call, I do have some  sales documentation  that helps me understand what  more  likely 
happened.
 I have seen a call script that Nationwide has said is representative  of what their advisor  
would have said during  the call. Within this script PPI is mentioned  as optional. I can 
also see on the sample  loan agreement that Nationwide  referred to PPI as optional  and 
would have displayed separate costs for it. So on balance,  I cant fairly say that 
Nationwide didnt explain  that having PPI was an optional feature, based on what I 
have seen.
 Nationwide says it did not advise Mr and Mrs T to take out the policy but it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for Mr T (as the sole policy  holder) anyway based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances during the times of sale. Mr T did have 6 months  full and 6 
months half sick pay. But the policy  would  have paid the loan repayments, if he was 
unemployed or if he couldnt  work because of accident  or sickness, giving him a useful 
benefit at a difficult time and over an extended  period.  So this information doesnt  
change my decision.
 If the loan had been repaid early  Mr and Mrs T would have been given a pro-rata 
refund so there  were no issues regarding this. So that feature didnt make the policy  
unsuitable for Mr T.
Ref: DRN94678532 Mr T was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations given in the terms and 
conditions such  as any to do with a pre-existing medical  condition.  So again there is 
nothing here that would make the policy unsuitable  for him.
 A sample of the loan agreement provided  for the sale sets out what he would need to 
borrow to pay for the PPI, the interest  they would be charged on the PPI part of the 
loan, the monthly  cost to repay  the PPI loan and the potential total cost of the whole 
loan. So I cant  fairly  say that Mr and Mrs T werent made aware  of the overall cost. It 
seems likely to me that they would have understood what they were paying and I think 
it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided.
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs T havent  been  mis-sold PPI by Nationwide.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9467853