K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss E complain that they were mis-sold a monthly  premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  
are now responsible for this complaint so the complaint has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  PPI policy  taken out in Mr M and 
Miss Es joint names in December 1997. 
The policy provided  Mr M and Miss E with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The monthly benefit was split equally between  them.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M and 
Miss E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Es case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Miss Es complaint. I appreciate  
Mr M and Miss E will be disappointed by this outcome but it is of course up to them whether 
they choose to accept  or reject my decision. I will now explain why I have  reached  this 
outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr M and Miss E were eligible for the policy. Im satisfied 
they were eligible based on their age and circumstances at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr M and Miss E that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account. Mr M and Miss E say that the PPI was 
added without their consent and knowledge.  They say if it had been  offered to them they 
wouldnt have taken  it out. Lloyds say that the optional nature would have been made clear 
to them  and that PPI was added because Mr M and Miss E consented to taking  it out.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr M and Miss E and Lloyds during the sale but 
Ive thought carefully about what they and Lloyds have told us and also looked to the 
documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more  likely to have 
happened. 
In particular, I note Mr M and Miss E completed  a separate application form specifically for 
PPI. There is nothing  on this form to indicate PPI was compulsory and it appears  
Mr M and Miss E made choices, for example, as to how the benefit was to be split between 
them. They both signed this form. Mr M and Miss E say that the signatures on the 
Ref: DRN96722722application form arent theirs. However, I havent seen any evidence  to be able to conclude 
that the representative forged Mr M and Miss Es signatures. I also note that Mr and Miss E 
completed a separate direct debit mandate  for PPI.
So, while I appreciate what Mr M and Miss E have told us, based  on the evidence Ive seen  I 
cant accept that PPI was applied  to their account without their knowledge or consent.  I think  
Lloyds made  Mr M and Miss E aware  that the PPI was optional and that it was only applied 
to their account because  they chose to take it out.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr M and Miss E to take out the policy. This means they had to 
take adequate steps to ensure it was suitable  for them.  I dont know whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr M and Miss Es circumstances 
at the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
Mr M and Miss E did not appear to have any other means of meeting their mortgage 
repayments if they were  off work  sick or lost their job/s.  This policy  would have 
enabled them to meet an important  financial commitment had they needed  to rely on 
it and would have  done so for 12 months  at any one time.
Miss E has told us that she was a temporary worker and worked for driving agencies. 
This could have affected her ability to make a claim for unemployment under the 
policy. However, the documents completed  from the time of the sale indicate to me 
that its more likely that Miss E was in permanent employment. The mortgage 
application shows that Miss E would have been working with her employer  for almost 
a year by the time PPI was sold. I appreciate  that this in itself doesnt necessarily 
mean Miss E was a permanent worker but Ive also seen  a copy of the loan 
assessment form. This shows  that various checks were carried out on Mr M and 
Miss Es employment and there  is a handwritten  note on this form which  states that 
they were both in permanent employment at the time of the sale. I appreciate  that it is 
difficult for Miss E to now obtain evidence  of her work status at the time of the sale. 
But in these  circumstances,  I think the information provided at the time of the sale is 
more likely to be correct and so based  on the evidence Ive seen I cant  say that 
Miss E would have  been adversely affected  by the restrictions/exclusions in the 
policy because of her work  status.  And I havent  seen anything  else which means 
Mr M and/or Miss E would not have been  able to make  a successful claim under the 
policy.
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable to Mr M and Miss E at the time of the sale.  
Mr M and Miss E could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted  it.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr M and Miss E, Lloyds also had to give 
them clear enough information so that they could  make an informed decision as to whether 
or not to take it out, in particular about  the costs, benefits and main  exclusions under the 
policy.
Its possible  Lloyds didnt give Mr M and Miss E all of the information as clearly  as they 
should have done. But this in itself doesnt  mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on 
and consider whether better  information would have put them  off taking it out. 
Ref: DRN96722723And I dont think better  information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the PPI was suitable  for them.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Es complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672272