K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that HFC Bank Limited will not refund any commission  it received from 
her payment  protection  insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy she took out in 2002.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided  guidance and rules on how businesses  
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains  about  the sale of PPI. It 
referred to a two-step  approach.  
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
Here, Im satisfied Ms G made a complaint about a mis-sale of PPI, which HFC Bank 
investigated and upheld in 2012.
When HFC Bank offered compensation to Ms G in 2012, it refunded  everything  Ms G had 
paid towards PPI. And, importantly, this included all the commission and profit  share it 
received.
As HFC Bank had investigated  the sale of the policy and upheld  it in 2012 with Ms G 
receiving full compensation, including all the commission and profit share  it received, 
HFC Bank didnt have  to go on (in 2018) and consider whether the relationship  was unfair.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Ms Gs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means HFC Bank  should do something different and I dont think there 
is. HFC Bank has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. So I wont  be telling 
HFC Bank to do anything  more.
Ms G has said that other businesses she has complained to have refunded  an amount for 
commission despite also previously paying  out for the mis-sale. But the Financial  
Ombudsman Service looks  at each complaint individually, on its own circumstances. And, as 
Ive explained  above, I dont think HFC Bank  has to pay any further compensation to Ms G 
here.
Ref: DRN99165712my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9916571