K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr B took out a Lloyds Visa and a MasterCard in 1994. At the same  time he took out two PPI 
policies. These policies cost no more than £0.79 per £100 of his outstanding balance  on his 
cards and would have paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with this view 
and asked that his matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr B was given a fair choice about buying the PPI. 
He says the PPI was never mentioned to him, he didnt agree  to the policies and never 
asked for them  to be added.
Lloyds isnt able to provide a copy of the actual agreement Mr B completed when he applied  
for the card and the PPI. This isnt unusual  given the amount of time that has passed since 
the sale, as businesses arent required  to keep records  indefinitely. But Lloyds  has sent a 
sample of the type of agreement that it said would have been  used.  I think  this likely  
represented something similar to the form Mr B would  have  seen when he was applying  for 
his credit cards and the PPI.  
On it theres a section  about the PPI. Its headed  Payments Insurance  and theres a box to 
tick if Mr B wanted the PPI. He could have marked the alternative box to decline it if he didnt 
want it. So on balance I think its likely he chose the PPI knowing he could refuse  it. I also 
think the PPI premiums would have  appeared on his credit card statements. If he was 
unsure about  the entries on the statements he could have questioned  it with Lloyds. I havent 
seen that he did.
 
Overall, I think on balance  Mr B chose the policies at the time and knew  he could decline 
them if he didnt want them- even  if its understandable  if he cant  remember  this now after 
so long.
Lloyds cant say exactly how this cover was sold but it has said it will treat it as if it were 
taken out in branch and it recommended the PPI to Mr B. I think thats fair as it placed more 
responsibility on Lloyds  for how it sold the policy. That meant  it had to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the policies  were suitable,  as well as giving Mr B clear enough information, so 
he could make an informed choice about  whether he wanted to take it out.
Ref: DRN92021572To help me decide whether the PPI was suitable  for Mr B, Ive thought  about  what hes told 
us about his circumstances. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the policies.  
Having done this, I think the PPI was right for him. I say this because:
Mr B says he had generous employee  benefits  when  he took out the policy and he 
didnt need the policy. Ive thought about  what hes told me. I can see hed worked in 
his job for a long time and hes told us he would  have received six months full sick 
pay followed by six months  half sick pay from his employers if he was unwell. He has 
also told us his wife could have helped if he fell into difficulty.  I appreciate Mr B had 
worked in his job for a long time and had generous benefits from work but these 
policies would have  paid on top of any sick pay he received and potentially for longer 
than his full sick pay would have lasted - for up to 12 months per claim. And although 
I appreciate his wife could have helped, support like this cant  always  be guaranteed 
in the long term as circumstances  can change. So I still think  the PPI was suitable 
and could have  been useful if something went wrong  it offered cover over and 
above what he already had in place.
Its likely  that Mr B was eligible for the policies and as he was working and not 
suffering with any pre-existing medical  conditions, I dont think  its likely he would 
have been affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions  of the policies which  
might have  made it more  difficult  to make a successful claim - all of this makes  me 
think the policies  were likely suitable for Mr B.
Theres nothing to make me think the policies were unaffordable  for Mr B.
Lloyds still had to give enough information  to Mr B when he bought the cover so he could 
decide for himself  whether or not he wanted  it. Given how long ago the sale took place, I 
cant say exactly what happened at the time of the sale.  So its possible not all the 
information was as clear  as it could have been. But I need  to think  whether  having  more or 
better information would  have  changed  Mr Bs mind  about buying the policies. But as Ive 
explained above I think he chose the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover at the 
time - even if he cant remember doing  so now. And for the same  reasons I think the PPI 
was suitable and met his needs,  even  with better  or clearer information I dont think  Mr B 
would have been put off buying the policies.
Overall, I dont  think Mr B lost out because of anything Lloyds did wrong. I realise Mr B will 
be disappointed  with my decision but I hope the reasons Ive given explain why I dont  need  
to ask Lloyds  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202157