K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained Nationwide Building Society  hasnt  refunded  over £40,000  of 
payments which  he didnt authorise.
background
In 2017 after getting an annual statement for his savings account, Mr W noticed  the balance  
was much lower than hed expect.  His son admitted  to stealing this money from him. He did 
this by transferring  money from Mr Ws savings  account into one of his two Nationwide 
current accounts. He then used his fathers online banking service  to transfer money to his 
own account. He also used his fathers  debit card to withdraw cash  regularly. This took place 
from April 2015 to June  2017. Mr W lost £42,355.09. 
Mr Ws son was subsequently prosecuted and he admitted  fraud by false  representation. 
Mr W asked Nationwide to refund the money  hed lost as hed not made  those transactions  
himself. Nationwide  didnt  think itd be fair to do so as Mr W had allowed his son to access  
his online  banking. Hed also not monitored the account over a prolonged period of time.
Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
After a detailed  investigation so we could understand  what  happened, our investigator felt 
Mr W wasnt grossly negligent when using  his account. He asked Nationwide  to refund Mr W 
along with 8% simple  interest a year.
Nationwide disagreed with this outcome. Theyve  asked an ombudsman to review Mr Ws 
complaint.
Since that time our investigator has separately confirmed to Nationwide why he felt that 
although Mr Ws son had helped him set up online banking, that it wasnt fair or reasonable 
to believe hed remembered  the online banking login information  from that date 
He also confirmed why he didnt think Nationwide could rely upon the 13 month rule.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent when looking after their 
card, PIN and online  banking information.  So when we look at whether a bank has acted 
fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to refund them. If there  is no authorisation then we go on 
to consider gross negligence  where  this is appropriate.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the transactions 
themselves, the evidence  presented to us by Nationwide and interview evidence shared by 
Ref: DRN95930652the police  with Mr Ws son. I can confirm all the evidence we can share has also been 
shared with Nationwide.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and whether  Mr W had been  grossly negligent in how 
he managed his accounts were comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 
25 September 2019. I dont intend  to repeat  everything that was said there.  Except to say Im 
satisfied Ive reviewed  the complaint thoroughly.
The facts  I think are pertinent to this complaint include:
Theres no real dispute that Mr W didnt make or authorise these transactions.
Mr Ws son had gone through a very difficult time and had felt his only way to get the 
money he needed was to steal from his father.
Mr Ws son pleaded guilty to fraud and was sentenced for this crime. In his police 
evidence he explained how he got hold of his fathers debit card and card reader 
which he used to make the withdrawals  and transfers.  
He also knew what his father did to monitor his three  Nationwide accounts and how 
he used these accounts.  
The account Mr W used and regularly  monitored was never touched by his son.
Mr Ws son helped  his father set up online banking  in June 2011. There were no 
disputed transactions  until April 2015.
It would be unusual for our service  to ignore a court conviction and I see no reason for doing  
so here.  This seems to me to present clear evidence that Mr W didnt authorise or make 
these transactions.  
Nationwides reasoning for not refunding Mr W is that he was grossly  negligent. However  
they have never made that clear  to him. Rather  theyve suggested he didnt  monitor  his 
account closely enough or that he allowed his son access  to his account.
Firstly Ill deal with Nationwides allegation Mr W didnt monitor his account. Actually he did 
monitor the account he used regularly and had payments set up to his two other  accounts.  
One of these accounts funded Mr Ws regular payments and direct debits  that was the only 
way it was used.  The other account was a savings account. I think a large number  of us 
dont regularly monitor our savings.
In any case two factors are also crucial in helping us understand how things happened here.  
Mr Ws son knew when his father checked  his accounts. He therefore managed  his 
fathers accounts to minimise any chance  of the fraud being detected.
Nationwide knows Mr Ws son intercepted  account statements for the savings  
account from his father. In fact it was when Mr W received his own annual statement 
that he raised the dispute with Nationwide immediately.
I dont think Mr Ws actions could be construed as gross negligence.
In the evidence its clear  Mr Ws son knew where his father kept his debit card and card 
reader. Mr W had written  down his online banking information and it was this that his son 
found and used. Nationwide suggested the fraud only happened because  Mr W allowed his 
son to set up his online  banking in 2011.
Ref: DRN95930653I think this is rather a stretch.  When Mr W got his son to help him set up online banking, 
theres no indication  he felt there would be a risk four years  on that his son may steal from 
him. Id also say theres no indication that anything  Mr Ws son learned in 2011 allowed him 
to steal from his father four years on. Mr Ws explanation of how this could have happened  
his son was helping  him do his tax return and the fact he wrote this information down  seem  
to me to be far the most likely.
Ive also considered whether Mr W  by writing this information down   was acting in a 
grossly negligent  manner. I dont think so. Given what information we need  to remember  
when accessing  online banking, its not surprising that information on occasion needs to be 
written down. The evidence shows Mr W rarely uses online banking so thats another reason 
why I think its difficult  to criticise  what he did.
The key aspect is that theres no evidence he did this whilst being seriously indifferent to any 
risk involved.  I appreciate  Nationwide believes Mr W should  have done more when being 
aware what was happening to his son. But I dont think it would be fair to suggest  hed have 
automatically thought  his son was stealing  from him or that was an obvious  risk.
Our investigator also explained  why he didnt think Mr W had been grossly  negligent with his 
card and PIN. Ive seen  nothing thats been mentioned since which would suggest what  
Mr W did was grossly negligent.
Ive considered Nationwides argument  that Mr W was in breach of his terms and conditions.  
I dont disagree that he was in 2011  when he allowed his son to set up his online banking.  
But as Ive demonstrated that didnt  lead to the fraud  his son committed. So that has no 
bearing on the decision Im making.
Nationwide argued  that Mr W could only claim 13 months worth  of transactions back, as 
there was no automatic  right to a refund  of transactions further  back  both under the Payment  
Services Regulation and their terms and conditions. I agree this is true. But in Mr Ws case, I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refund all the transactions. I say this 
because as soon  as Mr W was aware  of the money missing  from his account, he raised  this 
immediately with Nationwide. If hed known earlier, Im satisfied hed have  raised the fraud 
earlier.
I think what also needs to be taken into account  here is that his sons theft was reported to 
the police. From my experience where  there  is fraud within  families,  this doesnt often 
happen. Im not sure what else Nationwide could expect of Mr W.
Our investigator pointed  out to Nationwide that certain transactions happened  whilst Mr Ws 
account was overdrawn. There is no provision for gross negligence in those circumstances. 
Nationwides terms and conditions do not allow them to withhold £50 either.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  the obligation is on Nationwide to refund  Mr W for 
his loss when  he didnt make or authorise these  transactions, if there was no gross 
negligence involved.
Specifically Ive considered that Nationwide believe Mr W has been grossly negligent. 
Nationwide has been reminded  that the test for gross  negligence is a high bar to get over. 
And none of what  they appear to be accusing Mr W of here seems  to me to be gross 
negligence. 
Ref: DRN95930654As Ive decided there was no gross negligence, Nationwide will need  to refund all the 
disputed transactions  from two of Mr Ws Nationwide  accounts.  They  will need to add 8% 
simple interest a year to those amounts as well.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
refund  the disputed  transactions  that took place on Mr Ws two Nationwide  accounts;
refund  any interest and charges  that were applied to Mr Ws account  whilst he was 
overdrawn; and
add 8% simple interest  to those from the date they took place  (April 2015  to June 
2017) until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9593065