K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the delay by Elite Insurance Company Limited in dealing  with her 
home insurance claim for water damage. The claim was dealt with by the brokers  claims 
handling service  although for convenience  I shall refer to Elite throughout.
background
In February 2018  Ms P contacted Elite to register a claim  for water damage following a leak 
from a toilet. Elite sent out a surveyor to assess the damage and the claim was accepted.  A 
drying company  was appointed to dry the property out. Following this Elite agreed with Ms P 
that its contractors would deal with the repairs needed. The contractors then inspected  the 
work and agreed  with Ms P her choice of materials  and colours.  
Work started in late May and finished  by mid-June. Ms P was unhappy with the delays and 
lack of communication and pointed out that she was left without a properly flushing  toilet  for 
several months. Elite apologised  that the claim had taken the time it had, but didnt think  it 
was at fault.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Elite had acted reasonably.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that I can only deal with Ms Ps complaints as referred to in Elites final 
response letter of 14 June 2018. I believe she may have had further problems with her toilet 
late last year but if she wants to complain  about  Elites handling of that she should raise  a 
further complaint  with it.
delays
Overall I can see that the claim took four months from being reported to the repair work 
being finished. Unfortunately water damage  can take some time to resolve. First of all the 
property has to be dried out, which I note was completed by 20 March. Then Ms P had to 
agree that Elites  contractors could carry out the work. They  had to be appointed, assess  the 
damage, and obtain payment for the excess from Ms P. She had to agree her choice of 
materials and colours and the work had to be booked in. Our adjudicator  sent Ms P a 
timeline of the claim from beginning  to end and while  I appreciate that four months is a long 
time not to have  a toilet that functioned  only with difficulty, But I dont think  there were any 
excessive delays on Elites part. I note there  was a delay in getting the scope of works 
signed off but this was during the Easter  holidays which I think is reasonable to take into 
account.
communication
Ms P complains  of a lack of communication  and that she had to chase up Elite and had 
difficulty getting through on occasions. It appears from the documents  that Ms P was 
informed during the course of the claim what was going on. This may have been because 
she rang up to chase, but overall I think the claim progressed and she was contacted  by 
Ref: DRN97029832email phone or personal appointment. I know it felt like for her that she had to do all the 
chasing and I understand  it can be frustrating waiting for contractors or to have  a home  that 
is in a state of disrepair.  
An insurance claim like this will cause a lot of inconvenience. But I have to assess  whether 
there was any failure on the part of Elite which added to that inconvenience. And my 
assessment from the papers is that Elite acted reasonably  in the course  of the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702983