K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Airdrie Savings  Bank (Airdrie) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a loan.  
I know that Mr and Mrs B have several complaints with us about Airdrie.  To be absolutely  
clear, my decision  is about loan account  ending 7806 only. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a loan for £5000 in 1992.  At the same  time,  they were  sold a single 
premium PPI policy for £750.  As this was a single premium, Mr and Mrs B had to borrow  
extra on top of their loan to pay for the PPI. They also had to pay a further  £247.50 in 
interest over the term of the loan.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think  Airdrie  made  it clear  
that the PPI was optional. And he also thought that Airdrie hadnt made the cost of the PPI 
clear. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that Mr and Mrs B were  sold PPI during a meeting. I cant know  what was 
said during that meeting. So to help me decide  whats likely to have happened,  Ive thought 
about what Mr and Mrs B told us about it. And Ive also considered  the loan application form 
that Airdrie has helpfully  provided. 
Looking at the application form,  it seems  likely  to me that it was completed  by someone who 
worked for Airdrie. I say this because the handwriting is very similar to that which  appears  in 
the for bank  use only section on the right hand  side. And it also appears  different to 
Mr and Mrs Bs signatures at the bottom  of the form. 
There is a text box on the application form entitled Loan Details. At the bottom  of that box, 
PPI is dealt with as follows: 
LIFE, DISABILITY & UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE COVER WILL  BE ARRANGED  
UNLESS WE ARE ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY.  Please mark box (X) if cover IS NOT 
REQUIRED
Whilst I accept  that part of the PPI information was set out in capital letters, it does not 
appear prominently on the application  form. And the person completing the form has partially 
written over it.  
Mr and Mrs B told us that when they applied for their loan, they were told to just sign the 
form. They thought  the PPI was part of their loan. Looking at the dense  text of the document,  
I can see why Mr and Mrs B would have missed the sentence about PPI. I dont think  it was 
Ref: DRN96448722clear that they had to mark the box to effectively opt out of buying the cover.  That is 
especially so given  that the text has been partially  obscured and annotated. 
The evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest there  was a discussion about PPI at all. Im not 
satisfied that Airdrie made it clear that the cover was optional,  nor am I satisfied that it 
obtained Mr and Mrs Bs explicit consent.  And I uphold the complaint for that reason. 
As Ive upheld the complaint, I dont  need to go on and consider whether the cost of the 
cover was made clear  to Mr and Mrs B. Had I done so, it is likely that I would have agreed 
with our adjudicators  view. In particular, it appears to me that the cost of the PPI is very 
difficult to establish  on the application form. I cannot  see that the interest Mr and Mrs B 
would have had to pay for their PPI is set out at all. 
As Ive upheld the complaint, Airdrie  will need to take action to put things right. I should 
make clear  to Mr and Mrs B that I can see they made a successful claim on their PPI policy.  
Airdrie can deduct what  they got for that claim from the compensation theyre  owed. 
putting things right 
Mr and Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it should have 
been and they paid more  than they should have each month. Mr and Mrs B need to get back  
the extra they have paid.  
So, Airdrie  should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they would  have paid each month without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs B paid each month  from when 
they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 
and 8% a year from then on.
As Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Airdrie Savings Bank to comply with the above putting 
things right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9644872