K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc, did not inform her that her credit card account was 
in arrears and had been defaulted and passed  to a third party  for collection.
background
Mrs S last received a credit card statement in July 2016, with a zero balance.  In early
December, Mrs S called  Santander  regarding a separate  matter. During this call she also
informed them that her address needed  to be changed, as she had sold her UK home and
was temporarily staying at her holiday home  abroad. Santander told her that a change of
address request would  need  to be put in writing.  It confirmed  that it would stop
correspondence and statements being  sent to the UK address, pending  her letter.
On 5 December,  Mrs S gave written  instruction to Santander, to change  its records  to her
overseas address. In this letter she explained that the UK address had been  sold and for
safety and security reasons no post should  be sent there.  For various reasons, it took over a
year to get her address  changed. During  this time,  Mrs S and Santander  continued to
exchange a number of letters, sent to and from her overseas  address. 
In particular, Santander wrote to Mrs S in February  2017. They  confirmed that arrangements  
had been made to stop all correspondence  from being sent to the UK address. In her letters,  
Mrs S made Santander aware of her ill health and that she was awaiting  major surgery.
In May 2017, Mrs S made some  transactions with her credit card, taking her balance to
£198.18. Between June and November 2017, Santander sent statements; late payment
letters; and arrears letters to Mrs S at her old UK address. The credit  card account defaulted,
and Santander  passed the balance to a third-party  collector on 6 January 2018. 
In February, as part of her ongoing  letter exchange with Santander, Mrs S stated that her
credit card had been declined and she didnt understand why. The following month,
Santander wrote to Mrs S at the old UK address and then to her address abroad.  They 
explained that her credit  card account had been passed to a debt collector.
Mrs S was unhappy that she hadnt  been  notified about these actions and that they had
negatively impacted her credit file. She believed these  issues had occurred due to
Santander not changing her address when instructed to do so, and therefore referred
matters to us. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, as Mrs S did not ask about her 
balance whilst in correspondence  with Santander  throughout  2017.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs S has stated that she is willing to pay the outstanding balance once 
she has been issued  with her new chequebook. However, she does not think she should 
have to pay any fees regarding the non-payment. She has also requested  confirmation  that 
her credit file has not been adversely affected. Because Mrs S didnt agree with the 
investigators conclusions,  her complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Santanders handling of Mrs Ss request to change her address is the subject of a separate
decision. However, I have  taken  into account  the impact  of this on the credit card situation.
Ref: DRN92188412In both December  2016 and February 2017,  Mrs S was told that no correspondence  would
be sent to her old UK address.  Santander  was clearly aware of Mrs Ss address overseas; it
was corresponding  with her there. The letter Santander sent in February  also makes specific
reference to products Mrs S had with them. Due to data protection laws, Santander wouldnt
have been able to put this information in this letter unless they believed they were
corresponding with her. I am therefore  satisfied  that at this point, Santander  believed  they
were writing to Mrs S. The letter Santander  sent in March 2018 also had specific account
information contained in it.
Ive considered the significance attached  to a default notice and the purpose indicated  by the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in ensuring  it is issued.  Having done so, I take the view that
Santander should have made suitable arrangements to ensure Mrs S was notified of any
such significant issue with her credit card account. Santander cannot rely on the various
notifications that were sent to the old UK address, as they had already agreed not to send
anything further  there  and knew  that Mrs S didnt  live there.
Santander was aware  of the position of Mrs Ss credit card account but failed to notify her
adequately of its intention to default  the account.  Mrs S has said that she would have paid
the balance if she had been made aware of it. Having looked  at her current account
statements from that time, I have seen  that Mrs S certainly had funds available to her, to
have been able to clear  the balance.
Taking all of this into consideration, along  with Mrs Ss ill health at the time and stress she
would have been under,  it would be a fair outcome if Santander took back  the credit card 
debt. The starting  point should  then be immediately after the third missed  payment.
This will mean Mrs Ss credit file will show three missed  payments, which  I appreciate she
may find disappointing. However,  the reason I think it is fair in these  particular set of
circumstances to make this the starting  point, is because Mrs S ought  to have known that
shed need to repay the money  shed spent on the card. Her contractual obligation to make
payments isnt contingent on receiving statements. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair to expect
Santander to indicate payments werent due, or to waive all associated  fees due to her non-
payment of the outstanding balance.
Mrs S has said she is willing to pay the outstanding balance once she has received her
chequebook. But as Ive said,  her obligation  to make  payments isnt dependent  on other
factors like receiving statements, or a chequebook. If Mrs S chooses  not to make payments
once Santander  has made these adjustments,  the consequences of that decision will have to
fall on her.
Due to the credit card account defaulting,  Santander are not able to issue  Mrs S with a new
chequebook at this time. Once Santander  has taken back the credit  card account and
notified Mrs S of this and the amount due, she can begin to repay the balance.  Santander
will then be able to amend her credit  file accordingly. This will enable Mrs S to avoid any
further negative  impact on her credit  file.
Once these steps  have  been carried out, Mrs S can ask Santander to issue  her with a new
chequebook. 
For the reasons  I have  set out, I believe this is a fair outcome, based on the information
available to me.
Ref: DRN92188413The response  to my provisional  decision
Santander set out the following offer to Mrs S. And asked that she agreed to it:
Refund the £12 charges from June onwards which  amounts  to £84;
Refund all interest  that has been  charged from July 2017 amounting £23.11;
Remove all the adverse Data from the date of the spend in May 2017. To be actioned 
after Mrs S settles  the remaining debt of £174.99 in full; and 
Replace the current data with a U (unclassified)

They explained that they felt this would be a neutral data marker and suggested it would be 
a fairer way to display the data for Mrs S. 
Mrs S didnt comment on my provisional decision. We informed her of Santanders  offer, 
however, she didnt comment on that either.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Santanders  offer.
Neither party has provided me with any new evidence. And Mrs S hasnt  agreed  to 
Santanders offer. 
Ive considered Santanders offer. Theyve said theyll remove  the adverse data on Mrs Ss 
credit file after she has paid £174.99. This doesnt  put Mrs S back  in the position she would 
have been in had the error not occurred. My provisional decision made it so Mrs S could 
make payments as required under the credit card agreement. And it explained  that if she 
didnt do that, Santander could take the appropriate action  as outlined in her credit card 
agreement. I dont think Santander offering to correct  the unfair action taken after payment is 
made is reasonable. Therefore, Im unpersuaded by Santander and I still think  my 
provisional decision is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mrs S will need  to accept my decision for this to be binding. If she doesnt  accept  it, 
Santander will not have  to carry out the steps outlined in this decision. This will mean all the 
current information will remain  this includes the balance, charges and missed payment 
data on her credit file.   
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partially  uphold  this complaint 
and direct Santander UK Plc to: 
take back Mrs Ss credit card debt and restore her balance  to the position it was in as 
of the statement issued 24 August 2017 (this is the balance after Mrs Ss last 
transaction, plus any associated interest,  charges  or other fees relating to the first 
three months missed  payments); 
amend Mrs Ss credit file to reflect the above,  which for the avoidance of doubt 
includes removing the default and any other information suggesting payments were  
Ref: DRN92188414missed (other  than the first three missed payments due after Mrs S used  her card in 
May 2017); and 
confirm the revised balance to Mrs S and allow her to repay  it in line with the way 
payments were due on her credit card account. This may result  in Mrs S continuing 
to be charged interest on the outstanding balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9218841