K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential) gave him 
unsuitable pension  advice.
Mr P says that as a result of this unsuitable  advice he thinks  he has lost around £30,000.
background
In early 2016 Prudential advised  Mr P to move  his Prudential Retirement Annuity Contract to 
a Flexi-access drawdown account with Prudential  so that he could take the tax free cash  
lump sum from his pension pot.
Mr Ps pension  pot was worth over £119,000 in March 2016. A tax free cash lump sum of 
£29,821 was paid to Mr P.
The adviser noted that Mr P wanted  to access his tax free cash  lump sum to:
- repay car finance of £5,000;
- buy additional  land to enlarge  his garden at a cost of around £5,000;
- contribute £10,000 towards his daughters wedding; and
- increase  his existing  savings from £6,000 to £10,000 in order  to have a larger emergency 
fund.
The fact find, completed  at the time, said that Mr P was self-employed, earning around £300  
per week,  with around £6,000 in savings.
The adviser noted:
You would like to consider  withdrawing  the tax free cash from your Prudential Retirement 
Annuity Contract  to fund your objectives.  You do not require  any further income  at present 
and you do not want to commit to an annuity.  You plan to use the remainder of your Pension  
Funds for retirement or possibly sooner  if your health prevents you from working.
You fully understand that you will lose tax relief, potentially higher annuity rates and growth 
potential by early vesting, but you feel that your priorities are semi-retiring and improving 
your quality of life. You do not want to commit to an annuity as you prefer to retain  the 
flexibility of your funds through a Drawdown.
You understand that your RAC has a valuable  Guaranteed Basic  Annuity at Selected  
Retirement Date of 1 February 2018 of £8,783.17 (single life annuity, paid annually in 
arrears with no guarantee period  and no tax free cash). You are prepared  to give this GBA 
up in order to obtain flexibility.
Your RAC is not segmented, therefore  you would  like to move  the full amount into 
Drawdown. The surplus tax free cash will be added to your emergency fund.
The adviser noted that Mr P intended to continue working until his state pension age (age 
65) and did not want to take an income  from his pension until he stopped working.
Mr P contacted Prudential  in early 2019 and asked what the projected value of his pension 
would have been at retirement if it had not moved  his pension pot to a drawdown plan. On 
28 February 2019, Prudential set out that if Mr Ps policy and contributions had been  
maintained his plan would  have  had a transfer  value of £151,696.26 on 1 February 2018.
Ref: DRN91716082In early March 2019, Mr P complained  to Prudential about the advice  he had received.
Prudential did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said it felt the advice  Mr P had been given was 
suitable for his needs and circumstances.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with Prudentials response and brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. Having done so he said he felt it should be 
upheld.
He noted that Mr Ps recollection of events  did not tally with the information  recorded by the 
adviser at the time. In particular, Mr P said the adviser had asked about all the things he 
could spend money  on  he said he didnt  tell the adviser he needed  a lump sum.
Mr P said he had already  set aside funds for his daughters wedding  and he wasnt 
concerned about  his car loan. He agreed hed had a general discussion with a neighbour 
about buying land to extend his garden, but it had never progressed  any further.
Mr P also said his bank would provide a business  overdraft  of £30,000 which  meant he could 
cope with any unexpected work related costs.
Mr P provided this service  with copies of bank statements  from the time the advice was 
given. These  showed that Mr and Mrs P had around £18,000 in savings. Mr P also provided  
a copy of a recent savings  account  statement. This showed that Mr P still had around  
£25,000 of the tax-free lump sum.
In view of this our investigator said he thought it was unlikely Mr P would  have pro-actively 
sought to access  his tax free cash. He noted Mr P had significantly  more in savings than the 
adviser had recorded on the fact find. This was further supported  by the fact that Mr P had 
only spent a small proportion of the tax free cash.
He also said he didnt  think  that Mr P had fully understood the value of the Guaranteed Basic 
Annuity attached to his Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) when he accepted the advice to 
transfer his pension pot to the drawdown  plan.
To put matters right he said Prudential should  pay Mr P the difference between the current 
value of his pension pot and the value the pot would  have been worth (minus the tax free 
cash already taken) if Mr P had not been advised  to transfer it to a drawdown plan.
Prudential did not accept our investigators view. It reiterated that it felt its advice had been 
suitable and had met Mr Ps stated objectives. It said;
It may be that Mr P has not utilised the TFC for the objectives recorded in the Fact Find, and 
that the money remains available in a joint account,  but this could not have been  foreseen.
It said that the fact find information its adviser had recorded only related  to Mr P as he had 
wanted his finances to be assessed separately, despite Mrs P being present at the meetings 
with the adviser.
And it said that Mr P had stated that flexibility  was a priority as he planned  to continue 
working part-time beyond State Pension  Age. It said Mr P liked  the idea of flexibility to 
choose an income to suit his needs rather than the inflexibility of an annuity. He could then 
Ref: DRN91716083select a level of income to suit his needs as and when required. His surplus income was 
relatively low so reducing expenditure made sense. He also felt it was very important to 
ensure the family fully benefitted from any unused retirement funds in full. He had saved 
since 1979 and did not want his family to lose the money in the event of death. The flexibility  
of having a fund available  to the family in the event of death, was something that Mr P was 
keen to ensure.
It also noted that Mr Ps attitude to risk was categorized as low to medium  risk. It said:
His current RAC was medium risk and he was concerned that the value of his contract could 
fall as well as rise in the short time prior to retirement. He did not need any further income,  
and had recorded capital need so a Flexi Access Drawdown  (FAD)  was agreed as the 
appropriate solution.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint on 27 April 2020. In it I said I agreed 
with our investigators view that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  But I said that I thought  
the redress, as set out by our investigator, did not adequately compensate Mr P for the loss 
he has suffered. I have explained my provisional view as follows:
Prudential said that Mr P wanted  to release a tax free lump  sum to meet the various  
expenses detailed in the fact find its adviser  completed. It also said Mr P understood the 
implications of giving up the GBA  attached  to his pension  plan.  I carefully considered both 
these points.
Guaranteed Basic Annuity
I noted that in the suitability letter the adviser said:
You fully understand that you will lose tax relief, potentially higher annuity rates and growth 
potential by early vesting, but you feel that your priorities are semi-retiring and improving 
your quality of life. You do not want to commit to an annuity as you prefer to retain  the 
flexibility of your funds through a Drawdown.
You understand that your RAC has a valuable  Guaranteed Basic  Annuity at Selected  
Retirement Date of 1 February 2018 of £8,783 17 ( single life annuity, paid annually in 
arrears with no guarantee period  and no tax free cash) You are prepared to give this GBA up 
in order to obtain flexibility as this is more  important to you.
I said I was not satisfied that Mr P had fully appreciated  the value of the GBA he was giving 
up. In particular, I noted the adviser  did not provide Mr P with an illustration to show how 
much it would cost Mr P to buy a comparable annuity on the open market. 
I said I thought this would have helped  Mr P to better understand the value of GBA.
I also noted that the table attached to the suitability  report comparing Mr Ps retirement 
annuity contract and the drawdown plan recommended noted  that as well as offering a 
single life annuity paid annually in arrears, different options are available.  I said it was not 
clear what  these options were and I had not seen  anything to show  that Mr P was made 
aware of these options. I said it may well have been the case  that one of these options 
would have been more suitable  for Mr Ps personal and financial situation.
I said I thought the adviser should have  explored these options with Mr P before making any 
recommendation that involved giving  up the GBA Mr P was eligible  for.
Ref: DRN91716084I noted that the adviser said he had only discussed Mr Ps financial situation, but Mrs P was 
present at the meetings.  The adviser  says Mr P  felt it was very important  to ensure the 
family fully benefitted  from any unused retirement funds in full. He had saved since 1979  and 
did not want his family  to lose the money  in the event of death. The flexibility of having a 
fund available  to the family in the event of death, was something that Mr P was keen to 
ensure.
I said that I appreciated Mr P wanted  to provide for his family, but given the value of the 
guaranteed annuity Mr P was giving  up I thought  the adviser  could have considered advising 
Mr P to take out a life assurance  policy to provide a lump sum in the event  of his death. The 
cost of the premiums  could have been paid from the annuity  of almost £9,000 per year Mr P 
would have been entitled to at age 65 if he had not been advised to switch  to a drawdown 
plan.
Need for a lump  sum
Mr P said he did not need to release  a lump sum from his pension. From the account he 
provided to this service  it was clear that Mr P recalled being  encouraged to think of things he 
might need  a lump  sum for. The adviser provided a different recollection of events.
Having very carefully  considered this issue I was not persuaded that Mr P did need  to 
release a lump  sum from his pension. In reaching  this view I took account of the evidence 
Mr P provided to show that he and Mrs P had savings  of around £18,000 when the advice 
was given and that Mr P had only spent a small proportion of the tax free cash three years 
after it was released.
I noted that the fact find only recorded  savings of around £6,000.  But I said it was not clear 
to me why this is the case, as this was clearly  wrong. Given  that Mr P has been  very open 
about his finances with this service it seemed unlikely to me that he would not have been  
equally open  with his adviser.
I also noted that Mr P was charged a 3% adviser  charge  for setting  up and arranging the 
plan  this amounted to an initial charge of over £2,500.
I said I didnt think the impact of charges on Mr Ps pension pot was fully explained  to him. 
As well as the initial charge of over £2,500  Mr P has also paid an ongoing  adviser charge of 
around £500 each year.
I said I was not persuaded that the advice Mr P received was suitable. I said I felt it was 
clear from the information provided that, despite  having limited resources, Mr P had saved 
for over 40 years to provide for his retirement. He had one small car loan and had sufficient 
savings to repay this loan if he wanted to do so without any need to release money from his 
pension.
I said I didnt think that Mr P, who had managed his finances so carefully throughout his 
adult life, would knowingly  have taken action that was likely to leave him worse off in 
retirement. In view of this I said I was not satisfied that Mr P had fully understood the long 
term implications  of the advice he had received or the very significant  risk that he would be 
worse off in retirement  as a result of this advice.
I noted that in the suitability report the adviser said:
Ref: DRN91716085We discussed how you would feel if your investment/income were to fall in value. Whilst you 
would be disappointed if the value of your FADD were to drop,  it would not affect your ability 
to live comfortably in retirement because you anticipate that in retirement your expenditure 
will be around £1,027  per month as your loan and pension payments will have ceased. You 
will receive the State Pension of around £150 per week each (Single Tier, I have 
recommended that you obtain a Forecast).
You plan to continue  working. Being self-employed for 42 years, you feel able to continue  
working whilst you are fit and healthy, and work  sufficient hours to balance both work and life 
in retirement You feel an income of around £200  per week  will be sufficient  to cover a 
comfortable lifestyle When  you do have  to retire completely, you feel that your Drawdown 
will be able to cover  the shortfall  of £377 per month In the event of financial difficulty  you 
would look to downsize.
Mr P had a modest lifestyle  and had saved throughout his working life for his retirement. I 
said I thought  that if the adviser  had more fully explained the long term implications of 
moving his pension pot to a drawdown plan and taking his tax free lump  sum - when he had 
no pressing need  for it - Mr P would not have  gone  ahead with the recommendation.
I noted that Prudential has said that Mr P should have challenged the advice if he wasnt 
happy with it. I reminded  Prudential that it is required to give suitable advice and treat its 
customers fairly. In any case I noted  that Mr P did challenge the advice when  he became 
aware that the advice he had received might be unsuitable.
Having carefully considered this matter I said that my provisional decision was that Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  In addition to compensating Mr P for the loss he has suffered as 
a result of the unsuitable advice I said I thought that Prudential should also pay Mr P £200 
for the worry and upset  this matter has caused him.
Redress
I explained that the redress our investigator  set out in his view was intended  to compensate  
Mr P for the difference between the capital  value of his RAC, had he maintained his pension  
contributions into the plan and the current value of his drawdown plan.
I said I didnt think this adequately reflected the loss Mr P has suffered as a result of this 
unsuitable advice.
Mr P gave up a Guaranteed Basic Annuity at a Selected Retirement Date of 1 February 
2018 of £8,783 17 (single life annuity, paid annually in arrears with no guarantee period and 
no tax free cash) when  he went ahead with the drawdown plan.
This was a very valuable guarantee and I reiterated  that I did not think Mr P would have 
gone ahead  with the advice if he had fully understood  the cost of replacing this benefit  on 
the open market.
In view of this I said the redress calculation should  take account  of the loss of this benefit.
I explained that the redress calculation  I had set out assumed that Mr P would have taken  
tax free cash at his normal  retirement  date. I said that if Mr P felt he would not have done so 
and was in a position to repay all or part of the tax free cash he received I would re-consider 
this aspect of his complaint.
Ref: DRN91716086Mr P responded to say that he accepted  my provisional decision.  
Prudential did not accept my provisional  decision. It said it remained of the view that the 
advice Mr P received  to transfer to a drawdown plan was suitable based  on the evidence 
recorded at that time. 
It made  the following points:
-It accepted that there was a disparity  between the information recorded on the 
factfind and evidence  and information  Mr P had provided to this service. But it said 
the factfind information recorded by its adviser was based on information  Mr P had 
provided at the time.
-It noted that (as per the factfind) Mr P was self-employed and kept his finances  
separate from his wifes.
-It accepted its adviser was required to provide suitable advice and to treat customers 
fairly. But it said, this can only be possible if full disclosure of facts are given and not 
withheld.  
-It said Mr P had been made aware that his wifes financial circumstances were not 
being considered by the adviser  and this might have an impact on any 
recommendation made.
-It did not know why full disclosure  may not have been made to its adviser or why 
Mr P hadnt challenged the information recorded  in the fact find if it was inaccurate.
-In particular it said it felt it was somewhat surprising that, if the reasons recorded 
about why Mr P needed to access his tax free cash were wrong, Mr P had gone 
ahead with the advice.
-It was not clear why I had reached the view that Mr P had not fully understood the 
value of the GBA.  
-It said its adviser had given Mr P a GBA Vesting Pack. It said its adviser  had 
discussed this pack and the GBA  had been  highlighted  to Mr P. 
-It noted that the suitability report said You are prepared to give this GBA  up in order 
to obtain flexibility  as this is more important  to you. It said its adviser  had fully 
discussed this with Mr P at the time.
It also explained that the 'other options' to the guaranteed  annuity rate Mr P was eligible for 
were that he could take his benefits on an alternative basis to the GBA. It said this included 
taking a tax free lump sum, joint life benefits or an escalating annuity. And it said it could 
have provided  quotations  to Mr P for these if he had requested them.
It reiterated that the GBA was single life, paid annually in arrears  with no guarantee period 
and no tax free cash. So it would not have provided  any benefits for Mr Ps wife if Mr P pre-
deceased her. 
It said that my view that its adviser  should have considered  whether life assurance could 
have been used to meet Mr Ps objective to provide for his wife was subjective It said The 
cost of life assurance  may be prohibitive  based  on how much cover was required, Mr P's 
age and over what term?
In relation to the redress calculation set out in my provisional decision, it noted  that Mr P had 
been making a £120 per month payment to his RAC. These  payments stopped when Mr P 
was advised to move to the drawdown  plan. It said it did not think this had been taken into 
Ref: DRN91716087account in the redress  calculations. It said the additional contributions Mr P would have 
made if he had retained his RAC  would have  been around £5,760.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I carefully re-considered Mr Ps complaint in light of the comments  Prudential has made  in 
response to my provisional  decision. Having done so, I remain  of the view that Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  However, I have adjusted the redress calculation to account  of 
the contributions  that were not made  after Mr P was advised to transfer out of his RAC.
fact find information
Prudential says that it feels the advice  its adviser  gave was suitable, based on the 
information recorded on the fact find at the time the advice  was given. It says it feels  Mr P 
should have challenged  the information recorded  if it wasnt  correct. And it says it is 
somewhat surprising that Mr P accepted the recommendation if the reasons recorded about 
why he needed  to access his tax free cash were  not correct.
I dont think Mr P had any reason to deliberately provide incorrect information  to the adviser.  
Having carefully reconsidered  this aspect  of the complaint I remain satisfied that Mr P was 
as open with the adviser as he has been with this service. He had no reason not to be. I am 
also mindful that Mr P says he recalls being  asked  about things he could spend money on, 
rather than telling the adviser that he needed to access a lump sum from his pension. 
A basic principle of pension advice  is that, if there are other resources which  could be used  
instead of giving up guaranteed benefits,  then these should be explored first Mr P was 
continuing to work  and so repayment of the car loan wasnt a pressing issue, and he had no 
immediate need  for money to buy additional  land for his garden.  The only compelling 
requirement appears to have been his wish to contribute  to his daughters wedding. 
Notwithstanding the evidence that he had more than enough  to be able to contribute  the 
proposed £10,000, Im not persuaded that this alone  would have been enough to prompt  
Mr P to give up the valuable guaranteed  benefits if hed fully understood what  he was being 
advised to do. Ill address this in the next section.
I have also taken into account that as well as the initial charge of over £2,500  Mr P also paid 
an ongoing  adviser charge of around  £500 each year for the advice he received.  I 
understand that no charge would  have been  made if Mr P had been advised to retain  his 
RAC.
did Mr P fully understand the value of the Guaranteed  Basic  Annuity (GBA)
In its response to my provisional decision Prudential said it was not clear why I had reached 
the view that Mr P had not fully understood the value of the Guaranteed Basic Annuity 
(GBA). It said its adviser had given Mr P a GBA Vesting Pack  and had discussed the pack  
with him. 
It also noted that the suitability report said;
 You are prepared to give this GBA up in order to obtain flexibility as this is more  important 
to you. It said its adviser had fully discussed  this with Mr P at the time.
Ref: DRN91716088I have reconsidered  this issue in light of Prudentials  comments. Having done so, I remain  of 
the view that Mr P did not understand  the value of the GBA  he gave up. 
I think the fact Mr P did not refer to the GBA (by name, or in general terms) in his complaint 
and thought the loss he has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice was only the 
investment growth  he would have benefitted from supports my view that Mr P did not fully 
understand the value of the GBA he was eligible for.
Prudential has not explained why, if Mr P did fully understand the value of the GBA  and how 
much it would cost to replace the guarantee,  he decided  to go ahead with the 
recommendation. I think this is key to whether the recommendation  was suitable. As Mr P 
has demonstrated  and as Ive discussed  above - he did not have a pressing need for the 
lump sum. In fact, he still had around £25,000  of the tax-free  lump  sum left more  than three  
years after the advice was given. This would have been better served  remaining in the tax 
efficient pensions wrapper  to provide the guaranteed benefit which Mr P would otherwise 
have been entitled to.
Prudential also says my view that its adviser  should have considered  whether  life assurance 
could have been used to meet Mr Ps objective to provide  for his wife was subjective. It said 
The cost of life assurance may be prohibitive based on how much cover  was required, Mr 
P's age and over what term? This may well be the case, but I think  these are issues  the 
adviser should have considered before advising Mr P to give up his guaranteed  annuity.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I appreciate  that Mr P wanted to provide  for his family, 
but given the value  of the guaranteed annuity Mr P was giving up I think the adviser could  
have considered advising Mr P to take out a life assurance policy to provide a lump  sum in 
the event of his death. The cost of the premiums could have been paid from the annuity of 
almost £9,000 per year Mr P would have  been  entitled to at age 65 if he had not been 
advised to switch to a drawdown plan.
premiums to RAC
In its response to my provisional decision Prudential noted  that Mr P had been making 
contributions of £120 per month  to his RAC. These  payments stopped when  Mr P was 
advised to move to the drawdown  plan.  It said I had not taken this into account in the redress  
calculations. It said the contributions Mr P would have made if he had retained his RAC 
would have been around £5,760. 
I agree  that the value of these contributions  should  be deduced from the redress  Mr P 
receives. As I explained  above I think that, but of the unsuitable advice, Mr P would have 
continued to make these  payments until he reached  his Selected  Retirement  Date on 1 
February 2018. From the evidence that has been  provided to this service  I am satisfied that 
Mr P had sufficient funds to maintain these contributions.
I note that Prudential has said the value  of the contributions  would have been around  
£5,760. I dont think this figure is correct. Mr P was advised to move  to the drawdown plan in 
early 2016,  two years before his Selected Retirement Date, not four years before  as 
Prudential has suggested. Mr P was paying £120  per month  to his RAC so I think  the value 
of the missed contributions is around  £2,880.
what Prudential  needs to do to put things right
Ref: DRN91716089My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and that a fair and reasonable outcome  would  be 
for the business  to put Mr P, as far as is possible,  in the position  he would now be in but for 
the unsuitable advice.
If Mr P had been given  suitable advice, I think he would have continued with his Retirement 
Annuity Contract  and maintained his contributions to the plan. And I think  Mr P would have 
chosen to take tax free cash and the Guaranteed Basic Annuity he was entitled to at his 
selected retirement date.
As Prudential has noted, once Mr P transferred out of his RAC his contributions towards  the 
plan stopped. I cannot reasonably require Prudential  to cover the cost of these contributions.  
I am satisfied that Mr P would have continued to make the contributions  if he had not 
received unsuitable advice. I therefore do not think that the growth Mr P would have received 
if he had made these contributions should be deducted from the redress  he receives.
Prudential should  deduct the value of the missed contributions from the lump  sum it pays Mr 
P to cover the loss he has suffered. I note Prudential has calculated that value of missed  
contributions is circa £5,760 over the last four years. But as I set out above, as Mr Ps 
selected retirement date was 1 February  2018  and his payments were stopped in early  2016 
I think the missing contributions are around  £2,880.
summary
I dont think that Mr P, who had managed his finances so carefully throughout his adult life, 
would knowingly have  taken action that was likely  to leave him significantly worse  off in 
retirement than he would otherwise be with the policy intact. In view of this I am not satisfied 
that Mr P fully understood the long term implications of the advice he had received, or the 
very significant risk that he would be worse off in retirement as a result  of this advice. 
Im also not persuaded that he needed to access the tax free cash  at that time, or that he 
didnt have other resources upon  which to draw to meet his immediate objectives.
To compensate Mr P fairly  Prudential  should:
past loss
A.Work  out the total income  net of tax that the Mr P has received (if any) from his 
drawdown plan,  with the addition of interest  at 8% pa simple from the date each 
withdrawal was made to the date of settlement.
B.Work  out the total income  net of tax that the Mr P could have received using the 
Guaranteed Basic Annuity  from his selected retirement age, assuming a continuation 
of contributions and fund growth/reduction to the vesting date Interest at 8% simple  
pa should be added to each net income  payment from the date that each payment 
would have been made  to the date of settlement. 
If B is greater than A, this should  be paid to Mr P. 
Prudential should  also establish the tax free cash amount which  would have been paid to 
Mr P at the vesting date of the original  policy. If this is higher  than that which he did receive,  
Ref: DRN917160810the difference should be paid to Mr P, with the addition  of interest at 8% pa simple from the 
vesting date to the date of settlement. 
Prudential may then deduct  the missed pension  contributions from any total loss figure.
future loss
C. Work out the annual  gross income  that Mr P could be receiving using  the Guaranteed 
Basic Annuity and the fund value that would have existed at the retirement age. Mr P will 
need to confirm to Prudential  upon what basis  within the parameters available for the GBA 
- he would have taken the annuity.
D. Work out the open market cost now of replacing  the income in C, using the same basis  as 
determined above.
If the amount determined  in D is lower than the fund value in Mr Ps current pension plan, 
Prudential should  pay a sum to that plan to make it equivalent to D, taking  account  of any 
available tax reliefs  and charges. If thats not possible, or there are lifetime allowance 
protection issues, then the amount should be paid directly to Mr P, with the deduction of 20% 
to reflect  the tax band which Ive assumed  Mr P would fall within in retirement. 
Prudential should  provide  the details of its calculations to Mr P in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential consider that it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how 
much it has deducted. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, Prudential  should also pay Mr P £200  for the worry and upset this matter has 
caused him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters  right The Prudential 
Assurance Company  Limited should  calculate  and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9171608