K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined Mrs Ds claim for 
critical illness benefit and subsequently amended their decreasing-term  assurance policy.  
background
In July 2014, Mr and Mrs D applied for a decreasing-term  assurance policy  with life and 
critical illness cover. The sum assured was £100,000 with a 20 year term. As part of her 
application, Mrs D was asked if shed ever experienced:
blurred or double vision, loss of feeling, numbness, pins and needles, tingling of the 
limbs or face or any disease or disorder of the central nervous system (tire brain, 
spinal cord and nerves),  which  has not already been mentioned  in earlier  questions?
Mrs D was also asked if, within the last five years, shed experienced:
a lump, growth or cyst of any kind, or any mole or freckle that has bled,  become  
painful, changed in colour or increased  in size?
Mrs D answered  no to the above questions.
Mrs D was diagnosed  with Multiple  Sclerosis (MS) in October  2017  and made  a claim for 
critical illness benefit. Aviva contacted Mrs Ds GP for a copy of her medical records.  Aviva  
said the medical records showed Mrs D reported  symptoms of weakness  in her right lower 
limb in 2012. And on 25 September 2013, Mrs D visited her GP. The GPs notes say:
Problem Has pins and needles (First)
History both feet, lateral  side 1/52,  summer time had dead leg sensation 
lateral right calf on walking or running, no backache or stiffness
Mrs D attended her GP again on 17 October 2013. The note said:
Problem Has pins and needles (Review)
History still a problem,
Referral Neurology referral
The notes show that Mrs D returned  to her GP around a week  later as she discovered she 
was pregnant with her third child. 
Aviva also obtained  a letter written by Mrs Ds consultant neurologist  in 2016,  which  said:
 Four years ago she developed a brief episode  of numbness in her right leg with a 
limp. This lasted less than half an hour. Three  years  ago she then had pins and 
needles in both feet which lasted three to four weeks. 
And in November 2017, Mrs Ds consultant neurologist told Aviva she:
Ref: DRN92855692first developed symptoms in 2012 when  several  months after the birth of a child 
noticed some weakness in her right lower  limb.  In 2012 whist on honeymoon she 
developed paraesthesia  (tingling)  predominately  in her right foot. These symptoms 
were self-limiting.  Her next significant episode was in late 2015/early  2016.
Aviva also said Mrs G should  have answered  yes to its question, quoted  above, about  
whether she had any lump within the last five years. It says this because notes provided by 
Mrs Ds GP show she attended about a breast  lump in March 2013. She was advised  to 
monitor the lump and return if it remained unchanged.  The GPs notes also said,  h/o 
fibroadenoma right breast, seen at breast clinic  2009.  
Aviva said if Mrs D disclosed her visit to the doctor about her breast lump, she wouldve 
been asked whether she had a history of breast  lumps. Aviva said this wouldve prompted 
Mrs D to disclose her history of fibroadenoma, and it wouldve applied a +50% rating to the 
critical illness element of the policy. And if Mrs D had disclosed shed been  referred  to a 
neurologist, it wouldve  treated  her as having  possible  multiple  sclerosis  and wouldve 
applied an exclusion to her critical illness cover for any progressive or recurring disorder of 
the central nervous system, including MS. 
As Aviva wouldve excluded any claim for MS, it wouldnt consider her claim. Aviva  said it 
wouldve also removed the total permanent disability and premium  protection benefits 
included with the policy. Aviva also said it wouldve charged Mrs D a higher premium for her 
critical illness benefit. It said Mrs D should have been paying  £43.03  per month,  instead of 
the £38.70. As Mrs D only paid 89.937% of the correct premium, Aviva reduced  the 
£100,000 sum assured proportionately  to £89,937.
Mrs D appealed Avivas  decision, saying she hadnt disclosed the breast lump because she 
didnt remember it at the time, and can still remember barely  anything  about it. In respect of 
the pins and needles, Mrs D believed these were related to exercise. She was a very active  
runner, and stopped running  only when she found out she was pregnant in October 2013. 
Mrs D said her symptoms  stopped, so she thought they were related to exercise. She had no 
further issues until late 2015 or early 2016.
Avivas decision to decline Mrs Ds claim and amend her policy  was unchanged. But it paid 
Mrs D £400 to apologise for previously giving Mrs D incorrect calculations  when  amending 
her policy.  Unhappy with this response, Mrs D referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator  
thought Mrs D was asked clear questions and thought Mrs D should  have answered these 
differently. Our investigator thought Aviva was treating Mrs D fairly  by putting her back  in the 
position she would have been in if shed answered  yes to Avivas questions  by revising her 
policy in line with its underwriting guidance. Our investigator also thought it was fair Aviva 
reduced the sum insured  proportionately.
Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, saying her symptoms had 
disappeared and there was no need for her to see her GP until after her third child was born. 
Mrs D said there was a possibility the premiums would have been  higher or the policy  would 
not have been amended.
Our investigator explained her view that the question  Mrs D was asked  was specific   she 
was asked if she had ever experienced numbness or pins and needles. So our investigator 
said Mrs D should have  disclosed  her pins and needles  even  if they symptoms had gone  
away. Our investigator said Aviva had shown it wouldve applied an exclusion for any claim 
Ref: DRN92855693for Multiple  Sclerosis even if the symptoms had gone away, so didnt think this would have 
made any difference in this case. So this has come to me for a decision,
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having considered  the available 
evidence, I dont think this is a complaint I should uphold. I realise my decision will be very 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, but Ill explain my reasons.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA placed Mrs D under a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided Aviva asked her a clear question. If Mrs D didnt take reasonable care 
to answer questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Aviva. 
was there  a misrepresentation?
I first need to decide whether Mrs D met her obligation to take reasonable care when 
completing her application for insurance. If she didnt do so, this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mrs D suffered  an episode of numbness and pins and 
needles in 2013. I accept Mrs D says the problem went away when  she stopped running 
after she found out she was pregnant. 
To re-cap, Mrs D was asked if shed ever experienced:
blurred or double vision, loss of feeling, numbness, pins and needles, tingling of the 
limbs or face or any disease or disorder of the central nervous system (tire brain, 
spinal cord and nerves),  which  has not already been mentioned  in earlier  questions?
I think this question asked  clearly whether Mrs D had experienced numbness or pins and 
needles  and she had experienced both within a year of applying for her policy.  I dont think  
it would  be reasonable to interpret the question to say Mrs D should have disclosed only 
problems that were still remaining, or had not gone away. So I think Mrs D should  have  
answered yes to this question and I dont accept  her suggestion it was reasonable for her to 
answer differently  because the problem had gone away. 
Similarly, I think Mrs D should  have answered  yes when  asked  if shed experienced a lump 
or growth  of any kind within the last five years. And Mrs D had experienced a lump,  which  
shed gone to her GP about  less than 18 months  before she applied  for the policy.  Whilst 
Mrs D hadnt felt it necessary to go back to her GP, the question  she was asked  isnt 
qualified in any way. I think it was clear in asking  if Mrs D had experienced any lump  not 
whether shed had any lump  that hadnt  gone away. So I dont think  it was reasonable for 
Mrs D to answer no on the basis the lump had gone away,  or shed forgotten  about  it. 
I think Mrs D should  have  responded  positively  to the questions  above. It follows that I think  a 
misrepresentation occurred.
Ref: DRN92855694A qualifying  misrepresentation will have occurred  if the information Mrs D failed to disclose 
wouldve made a difference  to the terms Aviva wouldve offered her. For example, if Aviva 
wouldnt have offered Mrs D the policy, or it wouldve charged her a higher premium, this 
would be a qualifying  misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider whether this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
what would  Aviva have  done differently? 
Aviva has provided its underwriting guidance,  which supports Avivas statement that if Mrs D 
had disclosed shed  experienced numbness or pins and needles, it wouldve added  an 
exclusion for any critical illness  arising directly or indirectly from Multiple Sclerosis or any 
disease or disorder  of the central nervous system.  I dont think  Aviva is obliged  to pay 
Mrs Ds claim for MS because, had she disclosed the numbness or pins and needles,  her 
policy wouldve excluded a claim for this condition before  she made her claim. I know Mrs D 
thinks Aviva  might have charged  her a higher premium instead   but the evidence shows  
this isnt the case, and instead  Aviva  wouldve  excluded any claim she made for MS. And 
Aviva is entitled to apply  this exclusion  under CIDRA.
Avivas underwriting  guidance confirms it wouldve applied a +50% rating to the critical 
illness element of the policy  had it been  made aware shed experienced fibroadenoma. 
Under CIDRA, Aviva may change Mr and Mrs Ds policy  to reflect  this  which means  it 
wouldve been entitled to charge her a higher  premium for critical illness cover and so 
reduce the sum assured.
I realise this will be upsetting for Mr and Mrs D, but I dont think  Aviva  is obliged to pay 
Mrs Ds claim. Overall,  I dont think Aviva has treated  Mr and Mrs D unfairly  by altering the 
terms of their policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285569