K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, 
so I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr W has not 
provided us with anything further. Sunny has provided us with some comments. Although  
I am only summarising here what Sunny has said, I have  considered  its entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Sunny has confirmed its earlier offer in relation to loans 10 and 11. But it doesnt agree with 
my assessment about loans 8 and 9. It is concerned that my decision places 
disproportionate weight  on Mr Ws borrowing pattern without adequately considering other  
factors that existed  in his case.  When looking at all these  factors  together  Sunny doesnt 
think they support  my conclusions that loans  8 and 9 shouldnt have been lent.
Sunny thinks that all of Mr Ws loans were affordable to him. It says it hasnt seen any 
evidence that Mr W was needing to borrow further to help make  his loan repayments. It says 
the gap in his borrowing between loans  8 and 9 shows that clearly. And it doesnt think that 
Mr W repaying his loans  earlier than planned is in itself evidence that they werent  being  
repaid sustainably. Sunny doesnt think it should  be held responsible for how other lenders 
interpret its loans on Mr Ws credit file.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I remain of the 
opinion that Sunny shouldnt have given Mr W loans 8 to 11.
In my provisional decision I set out why, in some  circumstances,  there  may come  a point 
where the lending history  and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the lending 
was unsustainable.  I think, for the reasons I gave in my provisional  decision, that point was 
reached at loan 8 here. So regardless of what Mr W had told Sunny about his financial 
situation I think it should have been clear to the lender that he wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay  any further lending.
I dont disagree that different lenders use a range of criteria  when making their lending  
decisions. But, based on what I know about the credit market, Im satisfied that, by the time 
of loan 8, the number  of loans Mr W had taken out with Sunny would have  made it very 
difficult, if not impossible,  for him to access other  forms  of lending. And that adverse  position 
might continue for some time afterwards. So I think it is right that those later loans are 
removed from his credit file.
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr W from loan 8 onwards. Sunny needs 
to pay Mr W some compensation.
Ref: DRN93484392putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr W after,  and including,  the loan that he 
took on 2 January 2016 (loan  8). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr W on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries  about loans  8 to 11 should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ws complaint and direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93484393EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr W was given eleven  loans by Sunny  between September  2015 and May 2016. Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments but Mr W generally repaid the loans  far earlier than 
had been planned. At times Mr W had up to three loans outstanding at the same time.  Mr W appears 
to have faced problems repaying his last three loans  and a small balance remained  outstanding  on 
loan 10 when  he made his complaint. But apart from that loan,  all his other loans  have been fully 
repaid. A summary  of Mr Ws borrowing  from Sunny  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 07/09/2015 17/09/2015 £  150
2 12/09/2015 17/09/2015 £  300
3 20/09/2015 11/11/2015 £  400
4 27/09/2015 11/11/2015 £  450
5 31/10/2015 11/11/2015 £  200
6 01/12/2015 17/12/2015 £  950
7 26/12/2015 18/02/2016 £  300
8 02/01/2016 18/02/2016 £  250
9 01/05/2016 09/04/2018 £  300
10 03/05/2016 - £  550
11 07/05/2016 09/04/2018 £  100
When Mr W first complained to Sunny it offered to refund  the interest and charges hed paid on the 
first four loans. Mr W didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint to this service. His complaint 
has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Given Sunnys offer he didnt make any assessment  on 
the first four loans. And he thought that the remaining  loans shouldnt have  been agreed either. So he 
asked Sunny to pay some compensation in relation  to all of the loans that Mr W had been given.
Sunny had another look at the complaint. Having  done so it rescinded its earlier offer in relation to the 
first four loans. But it agreed  that loans  10 and 11 shouldnt have  been given to Mr W and offered the 
compensation our adjudicator had recommended  in relation to those loans  only. Mr W didnt accept 
that offer so as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally it has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Ref: DRN93484394Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr W could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr W 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr W. It asked him for details of his income,  and his normal  
expenditure. And it checked his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a summary of those 
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier  each  of Mr Ws loans was repayable  in weekly instalments over around a six 
month period. So the amounts that Mr W needed to repay each week were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday  loan. But of course he was committing to making those  repayments over a far longer 
period. And at times Mr W had a number  of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to consider 
the total amount  that Mr W needed to repay to Sunny each week.
I think  the fact that Mr W typically  repaid  his loans much  earlier than planned should have caused 
some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was 
facing problems  managing  their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. So Ive 
also taken that into account  when looking at whether  Sunny  should have given  the loans to Mr W.
Ref: DRN93484395I think  that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were  proportionate.  The amounts 
that Mr W needed to repay were small  compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given  
these repayment amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances at the time,  and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before 
agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr W asked for loan 5 and the subsequent loans, that Sunny should have 
realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing  about  his finances. I think it 
should have taken steps at those times to independently verify Mr Ws true financial position.  So Ive 
looked at copies of Mr Ws bank statements to see what better checks would have shown Sunny. But 
having done  so I havent seen anything on those statements, such  as clear  evidence  of financial 
distress, that I currently  think  would have led Sunny to conclude that Mr W wouldnt be able to repay 
these loans sustainably.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr W I currently think by loan 8 the 
lender should reasonably have  seen  that further lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise  harmful. 
And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Mr Ws eighth loan request in just under  four months.  Each of the loans Mr W had 
taken had been  repayable over a period of around six months. But Mr W regularly paid those 
loans off far earlier than planned, but borrowed  similar amounts  very shortly afterwards. I think  
that pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying  early should  have indicated to Sunny that Mr W 
was most likely having significant problems  managing  his money. 
When  Mr W asked  for loan 6 he wasnt making  any inroads to the amount  he owed the lender. 
Although the amount he owed  was a little less than at its peak  at the time of loan 5, it was still a 
significant amount  and far higher than much of the time hed been borrowing from Sunny. 
There  was a short gap between loans 8 and 9. But I dont think  that was sufficiently long for 
Sunny to have any confidence that Mr W was on top of his financial problems. And as his 
borrowing again  began to escalate  Sunny ought to have realised  it was more likely than not Mr W 
was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving  in his 
finances and that his indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
I think  that Mr W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Ws indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer  number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability to 
access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So I dont currently think Sunny should  have  agreed to lend to Mr W from loan 8 onwards. Sunny 
needs to pay Mr W some  compensation.
Ref: DRN9348439