K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W were expecting a transfer  in Euros from Germany to their account with 
Santander UK plc. They  wanted then to transfer the same amount to a Euro account  they 
held in Belgium.  They say that Santander  UK plc misled  them into believing they could do 
that without any exchange rate loss, but that was wrong.  
background
Santander checked its records but said it couldnt find anything to indicate  that it had said 
that it could receive  Euros and transfer  the same amount, as Mr and Mrs W had suggested.  
Indeed, the bank said there hadnt  been any discussion  of exchange rates  at all  although 
there had been  a call with Mrs W when the practicalities of transferring money abroad had 
been discussed, as well as a discussion about charges. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint, but agreed with Santander that it hadnt 
given the reassurances Mr and Mrs W say they were given. The bank had acted in line with 
the account terms, and in particular those relating to international payments.  Mr and Mrs W 
didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that ombudsman review the case   as 
the final stage  in our consideration of it.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I accept that Mrs W was given reassurances about charges and that she might have taken 
what she was told to mean that the account  in Belgium would receive exactly the same 
payment, in Euros, as had been  sent from Germany. But that isnt what  she was told, and 
neither is what she asked about. Ive no doubt  she genuinely believed she had been told 
there would be no cost involved in the transfers, but Ive approached this case on the basis  
of what she was actually  told and should  have  been  told, not what  she thinks she was told.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to do anything  more  to resolve
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622517