K820x#14complaint
Mrs M brought this complaint on behalf of herself and her late husband, Mr M. She says 
HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her late husband a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a joint mortgage they had some years ago.
Mrs M wasnt covered by the PPI, only the late Mr M was. Ill therefore periodically  refer only 
to Mr M throughout this decision, as he was the policyholder.
background and summary to complaint
It seems  neither Mrs M, nor HSBC, can provide very much  detail about this sale due to it 
being so long ago; very few original documents are available from either party.  Ive therefore 
relied on some of HSBCs computerised records and also Mrs Ms general recollections, 
when thinking  about what happened. Ive also made some reasonable assumptions  about 
the PPI and the policy rules, based on my experience.
Mr M was sold the PPI policy in 1994  probably at the same time as taking out a joint 
mortgage with Mrs M. Its likely they applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in a branch and 
the PPI covered Mr M against accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around £23.54 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a manager. Mrs M told us he wasnt  entitled  to any sick 
pay. In respect  of his health, she told us he was in good health at the time of the sale.  Mrs 
Ms representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ms 
representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  The 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  and the impact  they would 
have had on Mr Ms chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN91033522The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like the late Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
We know the credit agreement itself concluded before 6 April 2008. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN91033523I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering this complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  them with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable, given their needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  them  to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his and Mrs Ms attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. As Ive said,  theres no helpful 
information left; for example theres  no point of sale documents. However, given this was all 
Ref: DRN91033524back in 1994 that isnt either unusual, or indeed, unreasonable. Businesses  arent  required 
to keep records indefinitely, but my general experience of these types of sale is that Mr and 
Mrs M would  have  been given a choice  and probably needed to make a selection on their 
mortgage application about  whether they wanted  mortgage protection  in respect of the late 
Mr M. I also think theyd  have needed to set up a direct debit to pay the monthly PPI 
premiums. 
I do accept we cant say for sure these things happened,  but on balance, I think  its more 
likely they did. Taking  everything  into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew  
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out for the late Mr M without  undue  
pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
We know little about the sale but I think it was probably an advised one where  the PPI was 
recommended by an adviser who knew about  their overall circumstances.  This means  HSBC  
had to advise  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  
was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation. It seems Mrs M cant remember  clearly what happened and there is no 
record of what the adviser  discussed in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  in respect 
of a sale during  a meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr M would have been caught by the significant exclusions  and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to reassure  me HSBC considered  whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions and we do know  such sales  were occasionally lacking  in this area.
So overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded  HSBC  did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable given their circumstances. Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration these 
probabilities:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ms ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if he 
was not working  for an extended  period of time  even  allowing for any benefits or 
savings he would  have been  entitled  to. Mr M wasnt entitled to any sick pay.
-Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the monthly  cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable for them.
-The exclusions and limitations I think were present probably didnt make  the policy 
unsuitable. There was nothing  about  Mr Ms employment or occupation which would  
Ref: DRN91033525have made  it difficult for him to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr Ms circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what  HSBC  was 
recommending and make an informed  decision  about whether to follow that advice and take 
out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect his payments if 
the late Mr M was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr M would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for them Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable.  Im not persuaded HSBC gave  all of the information they needed about the 
policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take it 
out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
Ref: DRN91033526not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have?  To what extent  did Mr and Mrs M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he and Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable, I have  found that the policy was ultimately suitable. In 
those circumstances  it seems to me that, whether or not they suffered loss or damage in this 
case primarily depends on whether, if HSBC  had explained things properly, Mr M would 
have acted differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs M says she and her late husband wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that they had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised them that there  was a suitable 
product Mr M could buy that would protect his joint mortgage payments in the event  he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he and Mrs M concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they possibly made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the exclusions may not have  
been as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, I cannot say HSBC told him the exact  premium at the point Mr M applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr M would have been told the cost before the 
policy started, so if the costs were  significantly  at odds  with his and Mrs Ms expectations  at 
the point of sale, its possible they might  have raised that with HSBC  at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy. In 
Ref: DRN91033527addition, Im not persuaded HSBC made clear exactly what  Mr M would get back  in return  in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  the 
joint mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what  the policy  actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than he would have  expected as there  was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought for Mr M and what they actually bought were  the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr M knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
them pause  for thought  and may well have caused  them to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy.  
However, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr M didnt have  any relevant 
pre-existing medical conditions, as defined by the policy, and was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his and Mrs Ms thinking  about what they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr M was unable  (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
HSBC may not have  told Mr M that any claim he made would  be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he and Mrs M expected  and might  have  hoped  for 
 but he was the higher  earner and he didnt have any other means to fall back on. In those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
Ref: DRN91033528to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to them and would help 
manage the consequences  should  Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he and Mrs M thought they were getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would have  taken  out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations  
on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI unless, in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence to rebut  the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account the 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs M found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that Mr M would not have 
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M and the estate of Mr M in the position  it would 
have been in if Mr M had not taken out the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr M would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he and Mrs M been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy he was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude HSBC should pay Mrs M and the estate of Mr M 
compensation, as that would put it in a better position than it would have been in if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN91033529Im also aware that Mrs M thinks HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1994  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M and the estate of Mr M in a better position than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before  12 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9103352