K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy Swinton Group Ltd sold him a motor insurance  policy  that didnt pay him the 
full sum insured  when his vehicle was stolen.
background
Mr H originally purchased a motor insurance policy from Swinton, an insurance broker,  in 
2011 and has renewed it each year since. The policy is underwritten by an insurer, which  Ill 
refer to as A. This complaint focuses on the actions of Swinton only.  Mr H has made  a 
separate complaint about the actions of A.
In 2018, Mr Hs vehicle  was stolen and was never  recovered. He reported the theft to A and 
it accepted the claim. However,  it paid him considerably less than he was expecting.
Because of this, Mr H said that Swinton had mis-sold him the policy as it didnt pay out the 
value the vehicle was insured for. He wanted Swinton to cover  the difference  of £15,000.
He also said that hed been  paying  higher premiums as Swinton had accepted his valuation  
of £50,000 which was more than A was now saying the vehicle was worth. And because of 
this he thought some of the premiums should  be refunded.
Mr H complained to Swinton and it said, in summary, it had asked  him for an accurate 
valuation a number  of times but Mr H had said he wasnt able to provide one. Hed also 
confirmed he was happy to continue insuring  the vehicle for £50,000. 
Swinton said it had warned Mr H that his premiums  would  be higher because  of this. And it 
explained to him the policy would only pay out the market value at the time of any claim,  
rather than the £50,000 he wanted  to insure it for. So it didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Unhappy with its response, Mr H brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator  
considered the evidence  and concluded  that Swinton had accepted Mr Hs valuation  in good 
faith and had warned him that hed only have cover  for the market value of the vehicle. So, it 
hadnt mis-sold him the policy.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed with this so Ill explain my reasoning.
Ive no doubt the theft of the vehicle must  have  been very distressing for Mr H. My role here 
though is to consider the evidence impartially  and fairly and that my mean my decision 
sounds a little matter of fact. 
The sum the vehicle was insured for
Mr H purchased the vehicle from new for £50,000  some years ago and he says this is why 
he first insured it for that figure. Swinton accepted this valuation in good faith and was under 
no obligation  to obtain confirmation of it.
Ref: DRN96398082The original  call when Mr H first purchased the policy is no longer available  due to the 
amount of time thats passed. From his own testimony though, Mr H has confirmed that, in 
subsequent renewal conversations, Swinton suggested he might wish to decrease the sum 
insured to reflect the likely decrease in the value of the vehicle as early  as 2013. But he 
chose to maintain  the cover at £50,000
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and Swinton in December 2017 when the policy was 
renewed again. During the call, the Swinton representative asked Mr H the value of the 
vehicle and said this can affect the premium. Mr H said he didnt know what  the value of the 
vehicle was but he thought it had probably  gone  down from when he first had it. He said that 
as he was paying premiums based on an insured  value of £50,000  thats the amount hed 
expect to get in the event of a claim.
The Swinton  representative explained that this wasnt correct and that, in the event of a 
claim, Mr H would only be entitled to the market value at the time.  He went  on to say this 
might be determined by reference to a dealer who sells that kind of vehicle. In spite of this, 
Mr H decided to go ahead  with renewing the policy with the insured value of £50,000.  So it 
seems to me that Swinton  gave Mr H clear, fair and not misleading  information. And this 
allowed him to make  an informed choice  when deciding  what the insured value should be. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Swinton made it clear to Mr H any claim would be based  on the 
market value not the sum insured and offered him a number of opportunities to amend this 
figure.
I think this gave Mr H the opportunity to obtain  an up to date valuation which may have 
allowed him to decrease the amount insured and thereby achieve a decrease  in the policy  
premiums. But he chose  not to do this, instead  retaining the valuation  figure which  he 
accepted was unlikely to still be accurate. I dont  think it would be fair to hold Swinton 
responsible for this decision. 
In summary,  I dont think Swinton has acted unreasonably and I dont think it mis-sold Mr H 
the policy.
The refund of premiums
As Ive concluded above that Swinton hasnt acted  unfairly, it follows  that I wont  be asking it 
to refund any of the premiums hes paid. It was Mr Hs choice to insure the vehicle at this 
level and Im satisfied he was given the opportunity to give a revised valuation  that may have  
led to a decrease in his premiums.
I note that Swinton has already refunded a proportion  of the premiums Mr H paid. It has 
made a commercial decision to do this as a gesture of goodwill which  is above  what I 
wouldve recommended.  So, for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking it to do any 
more.
Ref: DRN96398083my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9639808