K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way a claim under their home  insurance  policy  for an 
escape of water has been handled  by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs B made  a claim to AXA after a water  leak caused  damage to 
flooring, kitchen units and some contents in the downstairs of their property. AXA appointed 
an agent to validate the claim on its behalf. It also appointed a company to dry the property.
References in this decision to AXA include its agent and suppliers.
AXA paid Mr and Mrs B just over £5,000 to settle the claim. It asked Mr B to take up the 
wooden flooring in order that the property could  be dried. This was done  in February. Then  
the drying company found that asbestos was present in the floor underneath. There  was a 
very small  risk that asbestos might have  been  disturbed and spread to other parts  of the 
house. The drying company said all the base units in the kitchen  needed to be taken out in 
order for it to remove the asbestos.
AXA asked Mr B to obtain a quote  for removing and refitting the kitchen. Mr B queried where 
he was supposed  to store the kitchen  units in the meantime and pointed out that some  
panels and plinths had been damaged  by the water  leak but were  no longer available.  AXA 
didnt initially  offer alternative accommodation although Mr and Mrs B would be living  in a 
house with no kitchen.
Mr and Mrs B provided a quote for the cost of repairing the property.  AXA didnt approve the 
quote. It said the amount was excessive. Mr and Mrs B say it was later found to be 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B complained to AXA. In July 2018 it agreed there had been errors in the 
handling of the claim  and offered £650 compensation. It also appointed a loss adjuster  to 
manage the claim moving forward.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Both parties are well aware of the history of this claim. In making an offer of compensation 
AXA has effectively accepted that it could  have handled this claim better. Ill look whether 
AXA treated  Mr and Mrs B fairly in its offer of compensation.  Ill take into account the fact 
that a claim like this would always have caused Mr and Mrs B a degree of inconvenience.  Ill 
look at the extent to which  AXA made it worse than it needed to be and the effect this had on 
Mr and Mrs B.
I agree  that Mr and Mrs B were badly let down by the agent sent by AXA to validate the 
claim. That agent significantly under-estimated the scope of the works required to reinstate 
the property. It asked Mr B to remove the wooden flooring  without checking  whether 
asbestos could  be present  underneath. It recommended that AXA should make  a cash 
settlement which  later had to be repaid  in order for AXA to carry out the much  more 
extensive works required. AXA should  have been  aware of these on-going  problems since  
Mr and Mrs B either directly or through their broker were constantly chasing  for progress. 
Ref: DRN97840822I think AXA should have  taken ownership  of the claim  sooner rather than letting it drag on for 
months under the agents poor management.
The flooring  was stripped in February and the property couldnt be dried due to the presence 
of asbestos. AXA says that there  was no significant risk to health  because the asbestos 
hadnt been disturbed. I accept that this might well be the case but Mr and Mrs B wouldnt 
necessarily have been completely reassured  by this. I can understand that they would have 
found the fact that they and their three young children lived in these conditions for around 
four months extremely worrying.  I note Mrs B says the poor claim handling affected her 
mental health and she needed treatment to help her cope  with the anxiety caused  by this. 
I have no reason to disbelieve  this. I can also appreciate that it must have been stressful for 
her to project manage  the claim while Mr B was working away  from home for long periods of 
time.
Ive taken all this into account. And Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but based  on what  
Ive awarded for similar impact on consumers caused by an insurers  failings, I think an 
award of £1,000 is appropriate to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused to 
them by AXAs failings in this instance.
AXA accepted my provisional findings.  In summary Mrs B said:
The downstairs cloakroom was affected  by the same water leak. However, the flooring in 
this area wasnt removed as by the time AXAs supplier attended  the property, this area 
was deemed to be dry. As a result the flooring in this room doesnt  match  the new flooring 
in the rest of the ground floor. She thought this flooring  was damaged.
Her husband was very inconvenienced  by having  to take up the flooring in the rest of the 
ground floor.
Delays on AXAs part were very stressful for them.
Further  compensation would allow them to change the flooring  in the downstairs 
cloakroom to match the rest of the flooring.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B dont  appear to have  complained  to AXA about the issue of the flooring in their 
downstairs cloakroom. Since AXA hasnt considered this, its not something I can look at as 
part of this decision.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs B want to change the flooring  in their downstairs cloakroom. 
But in awarding compensation for trouble and upset  Im looking at the non-financial loss 
suffered by Mr and Mrs B as a result of failures on the part of AXA in managing their claim 
and the impact of the trouble and upset caused by AXA on them.  In reaching  a provisional 
decision that £1,000 compensation would be appropriate to compensate them  for this, I took 
into account the inconvenience Mr B suffered by taking up the flooring himself  and the stress 
caused to both of them  by unnecessary delays on AXAs  part. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs B 
dont think this amount  is adequate but I remain of the opinion  that its appropriate to 
compensation them for the degree  of trouble and upset they suffered in this case.
Ref: DRN97840823my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay £1,000 compensation  to 
Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset its caused  them (less the £650 previously offered if 
this has already been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9784082