K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr F from March 2010 
onwards. Mr Fs last loan was provided  in March  2011. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view in full. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr F could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN99028122As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two, three and four would  most  
likely have shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Fs monthly  
income and that Mr F already had a number of existing payday  loans.  In these 
circumstances, there  was a significant  risk that Mr F wouldnt have been able to 
repay this loan without  undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr F, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr F was unlikely to have been able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan five. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr F had a history  of persistently taking out payday loans with Quick  
Quid. In my view,  Mr Fs loan history up until this point was in itself a clear 
demonstration of his inability to settle  his loans over the life of the credit  agreement.  
Mr Fs fifth loan was for more than four times the amount of his first one.   
Mr F continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr F was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I think that Mr F lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan two 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr F owed Quick Quid money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint and Quick Quid should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  two to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr F owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information still 
recorded about loans two to five is adverse. So all entries  about these loans (where 
they remain) should be removed from Mr Fs credit  file;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan six included interest and charges that Mr F 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either way Quick  
Quid needs to ensure  that Mr F paid, or pays, no more  in total than the amount he 
was lent. 
Ref: DRN99028123 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9902812