K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has declined  a claim he made on his contents 
insurance following  a burglary at a property  he owns.
background
Mr R owns a property which he insures  building and contents  with Allianz. The property 
is lived in full time by Mr Rs brother, his brothers wife, their children and Mr Rs mother.  
Mr R says he also lives there some  of the time, though he also has another  property he also 
lives in.
Mr R took out the insurance via an online comparison website. He described  the property as 
a holiday home and reported that it was never left unoccupied and that members of his 
family lived there.
One evening,  the whole  family was staying  at Mr Rs other property when the house  was 
burgled. Entry was via a forced kitchen window.  When they discovered  it the police were  
called and the burglary reported  to Allianz. 
Allianzs loss adjuster  visited  the property and spoke to Mr Rs brother. The loss adjuster 
reported Mr Rs brother  as saying that he, his wife, children and mother  lived at the property. 
The loss adjuster said his understanding was that Mr R did not live there.
The loss adjuster said that he was given an extensive list of items stolen in the burglary. It 
included over 60 items, with an estimated value of over £50,000, much of it gold and 
jewellery. The loss adjuster  said he was told the majority of the items belonged to Mr Rs 
brother and his wife, and were wedding gifts from friends and family.
Allianz arranged  for a repair  of the kitchen  window. But it declined the contents claim. It said 
Mr R wasnt covered because the items werent  his and the property wasnt his main 
residence. It said he had no insurable interest  in the items.
Mr R complained. In his complaint form to us he said he lives half the time at this house and 
half at his other property.  He said the items were in his house and were his responsibility. He 
said they belonged to him and various  members of his family. He said many of the items 
belonged to members  of his family  but he was in possession of them  because  they were  
held securely at his property. He lived there  and the items belonged to him or his family, and 
so were covered  by the policy.
When Mr R spoke to the investigator  on 9 November 2018 he said the gold and jewellery 
was seen as a family asset but hed bought it all. He didnt use it, but it was his property.
Mr R said he told Allianz that the property  was his second home when he took the policy  out. 
He said he had told Allianz he would be living there half of the time. 
Our investigator said that items not owned by Mr R himself were  not covered by the policy. 
But she said Allianz  should assess his claim for any items owned  by Mr R himself, subject to 
him providing proof of ownership.
Neither party was happy with that. Allianz  said Mr R wasnt  resident at the property  and had 
misled it when he took the policy  out  he should  have  had landlord  insurance. He didnt use 
Ref: DRN96498492the house as his main residence  or as a holiday  home. It said Mr Rs brother had said the 
items belonged to him and other members of the family  not Mr R. It said items  not owned  
by Mr R werent covered  by the policy.
Mr R, through his solicitor,  said hed answered  the questions  on the online application using 
the answers that most  closely fitted  his situation. If Allianz wanted more  information, for 
example about  who would be living in the property, it should have asked. Mr R said the items 
were purchased by him and could be used  by him as he saw fit. He had ownership and 
possession of all the items and was responsible for all the contents of the property. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case came to me for a decision to be made.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
In deciding whether  Allianz acted fairly in declining Mr Rs contents claim,  the starting 
point is the wording of the policy itself. Although Allianz believes Mr R misled  it when 
he took the policy out, its internal emails  show that its decided not to void the policy. 
So it remains in force for the period covered by the claim.
The insured  is Mr R. Hes the only person  named  on the policy  not his brother, 
sister-in-law or mother. So in the context of the policy  wording You  refers to Mr R 
only.
The policy says contents are covered, and defines  contents  as:
Household goods including tenants  fixtures, fittings and interior  decorations, 
personal effects, clerical  business equipment, valuables  and money, provided 
that these belong to You or Your Family and are mainly used for private 
purposes.
Your Family is defined as:
You or any of the following people providing They normally live with You: 
Your husband, wife or partner, children,  Your relatives
The policy goes on to say, in the section  on contents cover:
What is covered?
Loss or damage to Your or Your Familys Contents while  they are in the 
Home caused by Theft or attempted theft.
Mr R himself is covered by You  and Your. His brother, sister-in-law and mother 
are relatives, but only come within the definition of Your Family if they normally live 
with Mr R.
I think this therefore  means that the policy covers:
1)Items  owned by Mr R himself;
2)Items  owned by Mr Rs relatives  but only if they normally live with Mr R.
Ref: DRN96498493Allianz declined  the claim  because  it didnt think most of the items stolen were owned  
by Mr R. And it didnt think Mr R lived at the property   meaning his relatives didnt 
come within the meaning of Your Family, and so fell outside the policy  cover.
does Mr R live at the property?
The house  is a four bedroom house.  Everyone  accepts that Mr Rs brother and his 
wife, their three children, and Mr Rs mother all live there. 
Mr R owns another property. He says he lives in this property part of the time and the 
other property for the rest of the time. He lives in one when hes working and the 
other when  not. Hes provided  a television licence, water bill and television package  
bill in his name for the property. Hes said that the family all lived in one property 
before, but now the family is growing and have more children, theyve bought a 
second one.
Thats not consistent with what he put into the online application. In answer to the 
question Is this your main  residence? its not possible  to enter free text. An option 
must be selected from a drop-down box.
The options  are:
Permanent main  residence;
Weekend only;
Weekday only;
Holiday home; or 
Unoccupied.
Mr R selected holiday  home.  He says he did so because that was the closest match 
to his actual situation. But if Mr R is right and he lives there for part of each week  
holiday home clearly  doesnt describe his situation.  A holiday home is a property 
visited occasionally for a break outside  the normal routine. Its possible to live in more 
than one place  at a time,  as Mr R describes. But that doesnt make  either  one of the 
properties a holiday  home.
When Mr R took out the insurance, he told Allianz  that he visited the property for 
holidays from time to time.  He didnt tell it that he lived there as his main residence, 
or that he lived there for part of the week (weekday only or weekend only).  And he 
didnt contact Allianz to say that none of the options  matched his situation and ask 
what he should do. He told Allianz  he was a visitor from time to time, which  wasnt 
the case.
What Mr R now says is also not consistent  with what Mr Rs brother told the loss 
adjuster. The loss adjuster attended soon  after the burglary, before there was any 
known issue with whether Mr R lived there or not. His role is to investigate  the 
circumstances and report back to the insurer. He reported that Mr Rs brother said 
that he lived in the property with his wife, children and mother.  But Mr R lived at his 
other property. 
And Mr R told the investigator that the family was now too large to all live in one 
property and needed another. Thats also inconsistent with them  all  including Mr R 
 living  in this house for at least half the time.
Ref: DRN96498494Allianz also noted that there are only four bedrooms   which  supports  that the 
property isnt big enough for the whole family to live in. Mr R is on the electoral roll at 
his other  property. And the bills he provided,  showing this address, are consistent 
both with him living there, and with him owning the property but not living there. 
Following the burglary, his brother told the loss adjuster  that Mr R didnt live there. 
The property seems  too small for the whole family to live in. 
I think it was fair for Allianz to conclude  that Mr R didnt live there  but instead was a 
frequent visitor to a house  hed bought for his family  to live in, while  he himself lived 
elsewhere. The evidence  doesnt persuade me that Allianz was wrong about that.
In all the circumstances I think  it was fair for Allianz to conclude  that Mr Rs relatives 
dont come within the meaning  of Your Family.  The definition in the policy requires 
Mr R to normally  live with them  and it concluded  he doesnt. 
are the stolen items covered  by the policy?
Ive concluded  that Mr R didnt live at the property. That means items belonging to 
Mr R himself are covered by the policy  but not items belonging to his relatives.  The 
policy only covers items  owned by You  Mr R  and Your Family. If Mr R isnt 
normally living with them, his relatives dont come within the definition of Your  
Family and so items they own arent covered.  Mr R would only be able to claim for 
items he himself owned. 
Theres been some inconsistency about who owns the stolen  items.  Mr Rs brother 
told the loss adjuster that many of the items belonged to him and his wife and were  
wedding presents from family and friends.  Others belonged to his mother,  or their 
children. He prepared a list for the loss adjuster, including full descriptions  of the 
items, their value and where they came from  organised by who owned them. None 
were recorded as being owned by Mr R.
In his complaint  form, Mr R said the items  belonged to him and his family as detailed  
on the list given  to the loss adjuster. 
But Mr R now says he bought them  all and they remain under his possession and 
control. Hes described the items as a family  asset,  but said theyre his to deal with 
as he pleases.  
Ive taken into account what Mr Rs solicitor says about whether he has an insurable 
interest in the items. But in my view the policy is clear; if he doesnt himself  live at the 
property, Mr R is only covered for items owned  by him personally   not items owned 
by others  who live there. 
The loss adjusters investigation found the items werent owned by Mr R, but by his 
brother and sister-in-law   because thats  what Mr Rs brother told him. The items 
were set out on a list prepared by Mr Rs brother. According to the list, none of the 
items were owned by Mr R. What  Mr R has now said is not consistent with his 
brothers list, and not consistent with what he said in his complaint  form. The list was 
prepared by Mr Rs brother immediately  after the burglary, before ownership  of the 
items became an issue in the claim. I think its likely  to be accurate. 
Ref: DRN96498495If Mr R didnt live at the property, the stolen items  cant be said to have been in his 
possession. If Mr R did buy some or all of the items  the list doesnt say where  they 
came from  that doesnt mean he still owns them if they were gifted to family 
members, for example as wedding presents.
After considering the evidence, Allianz declined the contents claim. Based  on what 
Mr Rs brother said, it thought the items belonged to those who lived in the property, 
not Mr R, and therefore fell outside the scope of the policy. I think  that was a fair 
assessment of this claim. 
Finally, I note Allianz paid Mr R £150  compensation for a short delay in assessing the 
claim over the Christmas  period. I think  thats  fair, and I dont  intend  to ask it to take 
further action.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr Rs brother responded to my provisional decision. He said Mr R lives at the property at 
least 40-50% of the time. He provided  letters from various neighbours to confirm this. 
Mr Rs brother said that he didnt  tell the loss adjuster that Mr R doesnt live at the property.  
He said the loss adjuster was employed  by the insurance company to minimise  or discredit 
the claim so had an agenda,  and was rude and argumentative when he visited the property.  
He said he told the loss adjuster that Mr R owned  both houses and that both were  his home. 
Mr Rs brother said that when Mr R stays  there,  he shares a room with their mother  so 
there is room for all of them in the property.
Mr Rs brother also said he didnt discuss ownership  of the stolen items with the loss 
adjuster at all. He said the loss adjusters focus  was on valuing the contents  that hadnt  been 
stolen to see if the contents  were under-insured. He was just asked to fill in some forms 
about the stolen items  and compile  a list. He sent the loss adjuster a spreadsheet he had 
compiled himself, which he said didnt  specify ownership at all  it was just a list of items 
organised in a way he found helpful. It was organised by who used the items  not who 
owned them.
Mr R himself also replied. He said that he said when he took out the policy  that he owned 
both properties  and used them both flexibly as his home. But he also said that the options 
available werent  adequate to describe  his situation.  He didnt want  to suggest that the 
property was left unoccupied  for parts of the week so selected holiday home but said it was 
never left unoccupied.
Mr R said Allianz  should  have realised it couldnt be both a standard holiday home and be 
never unoccupied. He said he thought the burden was on Allianz  to make enquiries into this 
if there was a conflict between his answers.  
Mr R said he had been consistent throughout in how he had described  the properties  and his 
living arrangements.  He said that any inconsistencies may have arisen because of the 
perceptions of those  he was talking to and their abilities to understand what  he was saying.
Mr R also reiterated what his brother  said about ownership of the items. He said he had 
purchased the majority of them. The jewellery  is an asset of the family and is his to dispose 
of when needed as it is used as a form of saving.
Ref: DRN96498496Mr R said he had never in fact received any compensation, and his claim was rejected 
before hed had the chance to provide  Allianz with all his supporting evidence.
Mr Rs mother  wrote to say that any gold or jewellery she possesses belongs to her son. And 
Mr Rs brothers wife wrote  to say that she considers  family assets to be held collectively and 
Mr R is the head  of the family and he can use the assets through mutual agreement.  
Mr R also provided letters from his neighbours, who said he lived at both properties. They  
say that Mr R stays at this house during the week and mainly  at the other  property at the 
weekend. 
We put this additional evidence to Allianz.  It said it hadnt changed its view of the claim. It 
said the new evidence  contradicted what had been  said before, and was itself inconsistent.  It 
said it didnt think the evidence was enough to show that it should have paid the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that two key issues in this case  were  whether Mr R resides 
at this property, and whether he  or other  family members  owns the stolen items.
Im still not persuaded that Mr R lives at this address. I accept he stays  there  regularly when 
working and visiting  his family. But I dont think its where he lives. Thats a question  of fact, 
according to the normal meaning of the words, to decide based on the evidence. 
Ive taken into account the further  evidence. Neighbours at both properties regularly see him 
at each. His brother  says he lives at this property around half the time, and Mr R himself 
says he lives there when  working.
But I also note that the two properties are only about ten miles apart. Mr Rs wife and 
children live permanently and full time at the other property   no-one suggests otherwise, 
though they do visit this property. And theres  no suggestion that Mr R and his wife are 
separated. Mr R himself is on the electoral roll at the other property. He doesnt have a room  
at this property, but instead sleeps on a sofa-bed in his mothers room when he stays there. 
I dont think the evidence of the neighbours takes  matters much further. They  cant say 
where Mr R lives, or which property he considers to be his main  residence   or whether he 
considers them both to be. All the neighbours can say from their own knowledge is that he is 
regularly seen at both properties,  and thats not in dispute.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, the loss adjuster who visited  just after the burglary 
reported that Mr R didnt live in the property.  Mr Rs brother suggested the loss adjuster was 
trying to discredit the claim or minimise it. But I think his report  is likely  to be an accurate 
record of what he was told at the time.
And I also noted that Mr R, when  he took out the insurance, said the property wasnt  his 
permanent residence,  it was a holiday home. Ive considered the explanation that Mr R has 
now given for why he selected that option.  But I dont find it very persuasive or credible. If 
Mr R is right about his living arrangements none of the other options entirely fit either.  But 
Ref: DRN96498497holiday home is not the closest  or least worst  match  its far more  inaccurate than any of 
the other options.  If Mr R considered that none of the options matched his situation, he could 
have contacted the insurer to discuss or ask for clarity, not select an option  that was clearly 
wrong. I also dont agree  with Mr R that the onus is on Allianz to check  these matters. As a 
matter of law, its the duty of the applicant for insurance  to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation  when  applying for insurance. 
The reason  why this is important is because  the policy terms say items belonging to Mr Rs 
relatives are covered   but only if they normally live with him.
I concluded in my provisional decision  that it was fair for Allianz  to conclude that Mr R didnt  
live at the property.  Taking into account  the further evidence Ive received, I havent changed 
my mind  about that. The policy  requires Mr Rs family to live with him. But I think its more 
likely he regularly visits and stays with them,  especially when hes working, than it is that 
they live with him.
That means that Mr R is only covered if the items are his, not if they belong  to his brother, 
sister-in-law, their children or his mother  all of whom do live in the property.
The loss adjuster reported that Mr Rs brother said the items belonged to Mr Rs brother, 
sister-in-law, their children and his mother  not to Mr R.
The schedule Mr Rs brother prepared groups the items based on each member of the 
family. There  are four lists, one for each of the three  adults and one for the children. Each list 
is headed [Name]s  items or [Name]s  jewellery.  The childrens items are in a single 
combined list, but each  item has a name next to it. Several  of the childrens items are 
described as being  gifted  to them at birth. 
I also noted in my provisional decision inconsistencies between Mr Rs complaint form and 
what he now says about ownership of the items. In his complaint  form  a complaint brought 
via, and on the advice of, his solicitors - he said insurable  interest is typically established  by 
ownership, possession  or direct relationship.  The items in question were  in the possession 
of, were the responsibility  of, and were contained in a house which belonged to and was 
insured by the insured  (me). I dont know whether this was drafted by Mr R himself,  or his 
solicitor on his behalf. But that is an assertion of possession, not ownership  in a context 
where ownership was expressed as being one of the ways  of establishing insurable interest 
but was not selected as being the applicable one in this case.  
The form went on to say The contents reported as stolen belonged  to both myself and 
various members of my family, as detailed  in the list provided to the loss adjuster and which 
appears attached  to this complaint. In any event, I am responsible  for all the contents  as 
owner and insurer  of the property and its contents. Again, that is an assertion of possession 
of the items, not ownership. 
The form further said whilst many  items  belonged to individual members  of my family, I was 
in possession of the items  and they were held securely at my property. I took responsibility  
for the items  at all times. That is an acknowledgement that Mr R does  not own many of the 
items.
The complaint form also says that the items were viewed as a family investment. And Mr Rs 
since said that as head of the family they are his to use and dispose of. 
Ref: DRN96498498I understand the point he is making about how items  such  as this are used and regarded  in 
his familys culture. Ive taken that into account too.
I think, on balance,  the most likely answer  to the apparently conflicting evidence  is this. The 
members of Mr Rs family each own valuable items of jewellery, which  they see not just as 
jewellery but as assets and investments. Collectively, the family considers the items to be 
assets of the family. As head of the family, Mr R could call on those assets  with, as his 
mother said, mutual agreement  for the familys benefit. But I dont think  that is the same 
as saying that Mr R is the legal  owner of the items. 
When he brought his complaint, Mr R said that as the owner of the property and head  of the 
family he had possession of and responsibility  for them, but individual  members  of the family 
owned them,  and I think thats more likely than it is that Mr R is the legal owner of the items. 
I think what Mr R and his family say shows how they regard the items. But I think  what Mr R 
or his solicitor wrote on the complaint form, and what Mr Rs brother  told the loss adjuster, 
shows who actually owns each item. 
Its for Mr R to show that his claim  is covered  by his policy, not for Allianz to show that it isnt. 
To be covered, the stolen items either  have  to belong to Mr R  he must be their legal owner  
 or they must belong to family members who live with him. On balance,  I think it was fair for 
Allianz to conclude that neither was the case. 
I said that I thought  the offer of £150 compensation Allianz had made was fair. Mr R says he 
hasnt received it. Allianz should re-issue the compensation if thats the case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Allianz Insurance  Plc should pay Mr R 
£150 compensation, if it hasnt already done  so. But I dont require it to take any other  
action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649849