K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about fees and charges  added to their secured loan account with 
Elderbridge Limited.
 
background
In March 2005 Mr and Mrs M took out a loan for around £22,000 for a term of 15 years  which  
was secured against their property. The loan was transferred from the original  lender  to 
Elderbridge Limited  on 1 July 2016. Elderbridge took on responsibility for the loan and the 
way it had been administered by the original lender before the transfer.
Mr and Mrs M complained the fees and charges were excessive and unfair since they hadnt 
missed any payments. 
Our investigator explained that, because of the rules that govern  this service about  what we 
can and cant look at, we can only look at complaints Mr and Mrs M have made about things 
that happened from 1 January 2011  to 31 March 2016 and from 4 July 2016 although 
Elderbridge agreed  to us looking at things from 16 November 2010  onwards.
Our investigator thought the fees and charges applied to Mr and Mrs Ms account from that 
time were in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms loan and fairly applied  in 
all the circumstances.
Since Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view, Ive reviewed everything to come  
to a final decision. For reasons Ill explain, I agree with our investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ms loan made clear if contractual  monthly  
payments (CMP) werent made on the date they fell due, the lender could add additional 
interest and raise certain fees and charges.
Mr and Mrs M say theyve  never  missed  a payment on their account. They  acknowledge 
they paid late sometimes but say they agreed  to pay four-weekly and stuck  to that 
arrangement. Theyre unhappy they were chased for payment even though theyd come to 
arrangements to pay. They dont think any fees and charges shouldve been  applied to their 
account. And they think those that have  been applied are excessive. 
Elderbridge say Mr and Mrs M missed some  payments early on in the loan and monthly 
payments were regularly  made late which meant  additional interest  built up. Its explained 
fees and charges were added to their loan because of the extra  work needed to service  their 
account. And it says Mr and Mrs M wouldve  been  aware of the fees and charges as they 
were set out on the statements  they were sent.
Although I can only look at what happened  from 16 November 2010 onwards, I think  its 
relevant to look at events  leading up to that date to put what  happened later in context. 
Ref: DRN96036182From what  Ive seen, from soon after they took the loan out, Mr and Mrs M often found it 
difficult to make their CMPs on time. There were a few reasons for this in the years leading 
up to 16 November 2010. For example, Mr M was paid four-weekly, instead of monthly, 
which made paying on the due date difficult.  Sometimes it was hard for Mr and Mrs M to find 
the money to pay on time. And now and then, Mr and Mrs M told the original lender theyd 
forgotten to pay.
I can see the original lender and Mr and Mrs M came to some  arrangements about what  
Mr and Mrs M would  pay and when. The arrangements were  largely  to make one off 
payments and they werent always met. Mr and Mrs M were often in arrears even though  the 
amount of the arrears was usually no more  than one or two months CMP. And because  of 
that, and the steps the original lender  was taking to manage their account, they incurred fees 
and charges.
From 16 November 2010 the original lender, and later Elderbridge, sent Mr and Mrs M 
regular statements. They explained  clearly  that fees and charges would be added  to the 
account if the CMP wasnt made on time and set out the fees and charges that had been 
added. The amount of the fees and charges that would be added  to Mr and Mrs Ms account 
were set out in tariffs which were sent to them from time to time although the tariffs set out 
they were subject to change.
The original  lender agreed  a number of payment arrangements with Mr and Mrs M after 16 
November 2010.  As before, they were usually for one off payments and set out that, if 
payment wasnt made, theyd be charged each month they were  in arrears and interest 
would also be added.
So I think Mr and Mrs M shouldve known from the information Elderbridge was sending  
them, they were incurring fees and charges and when theyd be applied.  And I think they did 
know, as I can see they discussed charges with the lender a few times.
Its not unreasonable for a lender to raise fees and charges where its taking steps to 
manage a customers account  provided  the fees and charges arent unreasonably high or 
applied when it wouldnt be fair to do so. 
Mr and Mrs M havent complained about any individual charges. They think theyve all been 
unfairly applied  and are too high. 
From what  Ive seen, the fees and charges on Mr and Mrs Ms account  have been applied in 
line with the terms  and conditions of their loan and the tariff information  the lender issued. 
As Id expect, I dont  think the lender applied any fees and charges when it had agreed with 
Mr and Mr M to accept  payment of the CMP on a date other than the date it was due. But it 
has applied  them when other payments were made late and at times when it found it difficult 
to get in touch  with Mr and Mrs M to discuss the arrears on their account.  I think  it was 
reasonable for fees and charges to be applied in those circumstances as the lender  was 
actively taking steps to manage  the account  and carrying out work it wouldnt otherwise have 
to do. And I dont  think the amounts of the fees and charges raised are excessive for the 
work involved.
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs M think the amount theyve had to pay in fees and 
charges is high bearing in mind the amount of their original loan, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think theyre fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So I dont uphold 
Ref: DRN96036183Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020. 
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9603618