K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about Somerset  Bridge Insurance Services  Limited.  He isnt happy 
about the way it set up his commercial insurance policy that was subsequently cancelled.
background 
Mr C took out a commercial insurance policy through Somerset Bridge, his broker, for his 
company. After about a week he asked if it was possible to get cover  to allow him to work as 
a courier. Somerset suggested  his insurer  wouldnt provide  cover  for this. But Mr C asked 
again a few days later.
When Somerset Bridge asked his insurer, it said it wouldnt insure for this purpose and that it 
wanted to cancel his cover. The insurer didnt want to cover  this risk, or the possibility of it, 
and so gave Mr C a seven-day cancellation notice. Because of this Mr C said he didnt want 
insurance cover for this and that he wouldnt  work as a courier.
But when the insurer looked into Mr Cs circumstances it realised it wouldnt have provided 
cover in any event. It transpired  that Somerset Bridge had misinterpreted what  Mr C had told 
them about  his business. And the insurer said it wouldnt have provided cover had it have 
known Mr Cs line of work. So, the insurer wouldnt reconsider  its decision  to cancel the 
policy.
Mr C complained to this service about  Somerset  Bridge and his insurer.  He didnt feel he had 
done anything  wrong and that his policy shouldnt have been cancelled.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C and partly upheld  his complaint against 
Somerset Bridge. He thought Somerset  Bridges  failure to set up the policy  correctly  had 
clearly impacted Mr C. Although he accepted  it wasnt  Somersets decision to cancel the 
policy, as that was a matter for the underwriter, it had set up the policy incorrectly.  And so, 
he thought Mr C should be paid £200  compensation because of its failure to set up the policy 
correctly.
As Somerset  Bridge  didnt  agree  the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree the matter  should  
be upheld. Ill explain why.
I accept Somerset Bridge didnt cancel Mr Cs policy.  But Ive listened  to the various  calls 
and it is clear Somerset failed to set up Mr Cs policy correctly.  Fortunately, the effect  of this 
has been limited  and I understand he hasnt had any cancellation marker against him. 
But I agree  Mr C has faced more inconvenience  than he ought to have. I say this as it is 
possible the insurer wouldnt  have cancelled his policy when  he said he no longer needed  
insurance to work as a courier. Plus, it mustve been stressful  for Mr C when  he realised his 
policy was set up incorrectly  and he had to rush to ensure he was insured.
So, I agree  that Somerset Bridge should pay Mr C £200 compensation for the clear  stress 
and inconvenience  all this has caused.  
Ref: DRN90743282my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset 
Bridge Insurance  Services Limited  to pay Mr C £200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9074328