K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide him with statements for his credit  
card account.
background
In October  2018 Mr E told Barclays that he hadnt  been able to access  their Barclaycard App 
or his online account,  and hadnt been  receiving  paper statements from them either. He 
asked them to start sending him paper statements again, and to refund some  charges that 
had been applied to his account since hed made them aware of these problems.
Barclays apologised for any inconvenience  Mr E had experienced. They set his account  up 
to receive paper statements  going  forward, and gave him £25 compensation. After receiving 
a further request from Mr E, they also sent him copies of his statements for the last 6 
months. And they refunded him a £12 charge that had been applied  when  his account went  
over its credit limit in November  2018, as they understood he might not have been aware of 
this. 
Our adjudicator felt this was fair. They didnt think that Barclays  had made a mistake  when  
they stopped sending  Mr E paper statements for his account; because the terms and 
conditions for the Barclaycard App say that a customer agrees to receive  their statements 
online. They  noted Mr E had experienced difficulties  accessing the App and his online 
account. But they couldnt see any evidence  hed made Barclays aware of this before 
making this complaint. 
Mr E didnt agree with their view. He says he tried repeatedly to reset his password for the 
App, but it didnt work. And he doesnt think its fair charges were added to his account whilst  
he wasnt receiving any statements to see that this was happening. So the case has been  
passed to me to review.
my findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr E will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator did here.  So I wont  be asking Barclays to 
do anything further.  Ill explain  why.
On 4 March 2018 Mr E registered for the Barclaycard  App. Barclays  assisted him with 
resetting his passcode  for this over the telephone. The terms and conditions for the App say 
that if youve registered  for it on a compatible device, you agree to receive your monthly and 
annual statements in the App. They also say that statements will be available in Barclaycard 
online servicing. I appreciate Mr E might not have been aware they said this. But he agreed 
to these terms and conditions when he registered for the App. And Im satisfied Barclays  
were following them correctly, and fairly,  when they stopped sending him paper statements.
The terms and conditions  go on to advise that If you would prefer to receive statements by 
post, you can choose to do so by changing  your statement preference in Barclaycard online 
servicing or calling customer  services. So Barclays did explain how Mr E could continue  to 
receive paper statements  if he preferred. I understand he wasnt able to access  his online 
account, but he could have telephoned  them and asked them  to turn these back on.
Ref: DRN92387142I also think Barclays took reasonable  steps to ensure  he knew  how to access  his statements, 
and to check he was receiving other correspondence  from them,  after hed registered  for the 
App. On 20 March 2018 they sent him a letter  saying that theyd tried to get in touch with him 
by email or text to let him know  that his statement was ready, but they could see their 
message didnt reach him. They told him how he could check the contact details they held 
for him were correct, and update them if necessary.
Mr E had problems logging into the App, and so wasnt  able to see his statements. Barclays 
have shown us that the last successful log in he made before raising this complaint was on 6 
March 2018. I can also see that Mr E tried to re-register on the App on 12 August 2018, but 
these attempts failed  as the credit  limit he was entering didnt match the one for his account. 
Mr E says he tried to reset his password a number  of times but this didnt work. I appreciate 
this would have  been frustrating for him, but Barclays records  dont indicate  that he spoke to 
them to ask for help with this. If he had done,  Id expect to see that theyd  done  what they 
could to assist  him. But as they werent aware he was having these problems I dont think  it 
would be fair for me to say that they made  an error here. 
Mr E feels  its unfair that charges were  added to his account during the time he wasnt  able 
to access his statements. I understand why he feels this way. But its Mr Es responsibility to 
check his statements, so I think its reasonable to expect him to have  told Barclays sooner  if 
he needed help with this.
I can also see that in addition to his statements, which  clearly  set out the charges and 
interest that had been applied, Barclays sent him some emails and letters about his account. 
In March 2018 they let him know that his account had gone over its credit limit and incurred 
a charge. And in September 2018 they told him how he could increase his monthly payment 
to save money on interest payments, as they identified that hed been paying  a lot in interest.  
I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that Barclays refunded Mr E the £12 charge  they applied  to his account  in 
November 2018.  Again I think  this is reasonable in the circumstances. I know Mr E will be 
disappointed, but I dont feel it would be fair for me to ask them to pay him back any earlier  
charges. I think Barclays took reasonable steps  to make him aware of these. And they didnt 
know he wasnt able to access  his statements  during this time. 
When Mr E first emailed Barclays letting them know he hadnt been  receiving statements 
and asking them to start sending  paper copies again, they asked him to telephone them  so 
that they could  carry out security checks. I appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mr 
E when  hed already been without  access to his account statements for so long. But I dont 
think this was an unreasonable  request. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9238714