K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the way Pepper  (UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit and her 
former lender have  treated  her when she experienced financial difficulty  on her mortgage.  
background
Ms B took out a mortgage with a previous lender that was then moved to a new lender and is 
now administered by Pepper (trading as Engage). 
Ms B complains  that - 
The previous  lender  shouldnt have been  allowed  to move her mortgage;
Her address  is recorded incorrectly;
She has made payments that have not been  credited to her account;
Her property was put into receivership;  and
She has received  poor customer service from the previous lender.
Ms B raised a complaint  with Pepper but it wasnt upheld. It said -
Ms B was given  notice  from her previous lender about the transfer  and it was within  
The Law of Property Act to do so;
Ms B changed her address to the incorrect one, not the business; 
Ms B sent payments  to the previous lender after she had been notified  about the 
change in business  leading to them  not being credited to her account;
It threatened receivership due to the arrears on the account  but this was never  
completed; and 
There was no failure  in the service she received.
Ms B bought the complaint to our service and an investigator looked into it. Following their 
investigation they didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She found that Ms B had 
changed her address  to a neighbours and had never changed it back. This resulted in the 
notification of mortgage account  moving letter going to the wrong address. This in turn 
meant payments  were sent to the previous lender and although these were forwarded on for 
a period, this eventually  stopped causing the payments to be returned. 
As payments were no longer being  made she didnt find Pepper had done  anything  wrong 
when they started  the process of receivership. She also didnt find evidence of poor 
customer service.
As Ms B remained  unhappy, the complaints been passed to me to issue  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint. Ill explain why.
change of lender
Ref: DRN99748462Ms Bs complained about her account  being  moved  to another lender. This is something  
thats in the terms  and conditions of the mortgage  and is something  the previous lender  was 
entitled to do. 
Ms Bs mortgage was changed from the previous lender in September  2015. Pepper  has 
provided a copy of the welcome letter and a goodbye  letter  from the previous lender. Im 
satisfied these letters were sent and so Pepper did enough to make Ms B aware that her 
account had moved.  
I understand Ms B says she didnt  receive  these letters and this is something that I will go 
into more detail about below.
wrong address  on system
Pepper has supplied  contact notes that show Ms B called the previous lender in 2010  to 
change her address  to her that of her neighbour. Ms B has confirmed this in her 
conversation with our investigator. I understand Ms B said she asked for this to be a 
temporary move but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that she asked for it to be 
changed back. 
Ms Bs address details were given  to Pepper by the previous lender, and they had no 
information that indicated they were writing to an incorrect address  including returned 
letters. So I dont find Pepper have done anything wrong by using this address to correspond  
to Ms B.
missing mortgage payments 
Pepper has said that as part of the transfer agreement,  the previous lender agreed  to 
transfer any payments  it received into Peppers account for a period of one year. In May 
2016, it closed  the bank  account and Pepper says a letter  was sent to Ms B in April 2016  to 
confirm this. Pepper has provided a copy of this letter to our service. 
When payments are sent to a closed account  they are usually sent back  to the payee. In this 
case that would be Ms B. I would suggest in the absence of the missing  payments, Ms B 
check back through previous bank statements for the period  in question to see if these were 
returned. Ms B can also contact the bank that the payment was made  from to ask that the 
payment be traced.  
property in receivership
Ms B has complained that her property was taken into receivership. I can see receivership 
was mentioned in the letters sent to her in April and September 2016  but I cant  see that 
the action mentioned in the letters was ever completed. The letters  explained that 
receivership was a possibility if the missing payments were not made. I understand why 
these letters would have  been distressing to Ms B but Im satisfied that they were sent 
correctly due to the fact Pepper hadnt received  Ms Bs mortgage  payments. 
In summary  it appears that a lot of Ms Bs complaint originates from Pepper holding  an 
incorrect address for her but having  looked through  the information sent from both parties, I 
dont find Pepper  was at fault for this issue. 
Ref: DRN99748463my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9974846