K820x#14Complaint
Ms M has complained that Covea Insurance plc has unfairly increased  the cost of her pet 
insurance policy.
Background
Ms Ms pet insurance policy has been underwritten by Covea since  renewal in 2018.  They  
are not the administrators  of the policy. 
In 2018 Ms M complained  about the significant increase in her premium which increased 
again at renewal in 2019.  She says the size of the increases  are unacceptable. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ms policy  is too high, she 
should have been charged  less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the 
future.
I know that Ms M says she was told when she originally took out the policy that her premium 
would only increase with inflation and not her pets age. And I dont know what Ms M was 
told at the time. But Covea didnt sell Ms M the policy so theyre  not responsible for the 
information provided to her at that time. And in any event, it would be unfair for me to find 
Covea responsible for something that happened over 10 years before they began to 
underwrite her policy. 
Insurance premiums  are calculated so that they can reasonably  be expected to cover the 
likely claims  arising  from an insurance  contract, with a safety margin to ensure the long-term  
viability of the insurer. The calculation is generally  based on the probability of the insured 
event occurring, combined with the likely  financial loss resulting from the claim. All insurers  
take a number of different factors into account  when doing this calculation.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk, based on the volume and 
cost of claims their customers have made. So if the cost of paying claims increases 
significantly, an insurer will revisit  the way they calculate the premium  to make sure they can 
continue to cover claims in the future.
As Covea  have explained, when  they took over as the insurer  in 2018,  they did just this. And 
as a result  some changes  were  made  to the way the policy was underwritten and the 
premium calculated  theres nothing  wrong with them doing this.
An insurer  is unlikely continue to provide any cover  if they know  theyre going to make  a 
loss. They  could find themselves in a position  where theres no money to pay the claims. So 
its fair for an insurer  to take steps to avoid this happening, much like Covea did in 2018.  
Unfortunately for Ms M, this meant  she saw her premium increase significantly.
Ref: DRN95240742Ive looked to see whether Covea treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. In 
other words, I need to be satisfied that Ms M hasnt been singled out in any way. Covea  
have provided  some  information  to me which shows how Ms Ms premiums  were calculated.  
I can see Ms M has been charged  the base rate that is applied to all customers who have 
the same  type of policy as her. This amount has then been  increased by a percentage based  
on Ms Ms pets  age. Its very common for pet insurers to increase premiums as a pet ages. 
This is because the risk of insuring the pet increases with age, and because older pets are 
more likely to become unwell and be diagnosed with long term/serious  health  problems. I 
can also see that the fact Ms M hasnt made any claims has been taken into account, as well 
as a number of other factors.
Covea say they introduced capping of increases linked to the age of the pet and claims 
history. I know Ms M doesnt think Covea capped her policy.  But I can see Covea did apply  
their capping principle when calculating the premium being offered to Ms M.  
While I appreciate Ms Ms premium  has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Covea has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Covea  has singled her out and treated her 
unfairly compared to its other customers or that they should charge  her a lower  premium 
going forwards.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9524074