K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) allowed a third party 
to set up online access in relation to their credit card account. 
Mr P has done most of the correspondence in relation to this complaint, so for ease of 
reading, Ill mostly only refer to him. 
background
The full background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
summary here. 
In February 2019  Mr P received  a letter thanking him for registering for NatWests  online 
credit card services and supplying him with an activation code. Mr P hadnt  applied for this, 
so he contacted NatWest.  It soon  became  apparent that a third party  had attempted to set 
up online  access to Mr Ps account.  So NatWest cancelled and reissued the credit cards,  
and deleted the online account.  Fortunately  there  had been no unauthorised use of the 
account.
NatWest took some  further steps to try to secure Mr Ps account such  as setting up 
passwords. Mr P asked  that no online access be allowed to his accounts as this wasnt  a 
service he wanted to use. Mr P says he was told hed receive  a confirmation email from the 
agent he spoke  to following their conversation.
A few days  later when  Mr P hadnt  received an email, he got back in touch with NatWest. He 
says he was told that the blocks to online access hadnt already been put in place as hed 
previously been  promised. Mr P says he spent a long time on the phone  and was passed 
between different departments. There was also an occasion where his call disconnected.
Mr P complained to NatWest. He was unhappy  that a third party had been able to set up 
online access to his account. He was also unhappy  with several aspects of the service hed 
received. 
NatWest responded  to the complaint. They agreed  the service theyd provided hadnt  been 
of the standard they usually aim for. They apologised for this and explained that some of the 
security measures had initially only been  applied to their banking system, as opposed  to 
both their banking  and credit card systems.  NatWest  say they credited Mr Ps account with 
£100 to compensate for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  thought  that the 
compensation NatWest  had already  offered was fair. So she didnt recommend that they 
needed to do more. Mr P doesnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this is likely  to be disappointing  for 
Mr P, so let me explain why. 
Ref: DRN95680992the online account
I know Mr P feels that as his card had only recently  been issued and had never  been  out of 
his possession that some of NatWests staff must have been involved in the online access  
being set up. The long number from the card is one of the pieces of information that was 
required to setup an online account. I can understand why he thinks this, but I havent seen 
further evidence  to support that is whats happened here. 
Scammers are unfortunately  using increasingly sophisticated methods. And I dont think I 
need to make a finding as to who set up the online account and who was involved to fairly 
decide this complaint. That being  said, I havent  seen evidence  to persuade me that staff 
from NatWest  were  involved  in doing  so.
Mr P had previously reported the loss of some  statements from 2015 to NatWest,  he asked 
that precautions  be taken  around his account  in light of this. But the information  required to 
set up the online access included several  further pieces of personal  information beyond what 
would have been included in the statements. So despite being  aware  of the lost statements, 
I dont think NatWest could reasonably  have known that the online  access application was 
fraudulent at the time it was made.  
Mr P also questions why his existing security  password wasnt used when NatWest received  
the request to set up online access. But as the attempt was made  online,  it wouldnt have 
required the existing  telephone banking password. NatWest have explained  that setting up 
online access isnt something that can be done over the phone. 
In any case the letter  that was sent to Mr P alerted  him to what had happened and 
fortunately there wasnt any fraudulent  use or loss caused. As the required information was 
presented by whoever set up the request for online access, I dont think NatWest are at fault 
for allowing this to happen. The letter Mr P received about the online account included an 
activation code  that would  have  been needed  to access the online account.  So, I dont think  
its likely  the third party could have logged in without  this code.  
I understand this was worrying and concerning for Mr P. But Im not able to ask NatWest  to 
compensate him for what might have  happened. The account was then blocked  and 
deleted with no financial loss, so I dont think NatWest need do more on this point.
NatWests systems
Mr P has made several suggestions as to systems  or procedures he thinks NatWest should  
put in place to help secure his and other  accounts. NatWest,  like all banks, have obligations  
with regard to keeping their customers information and accounts secure. But the systems 
they choose to put in place to meet  those  obligations are business  decisions they are 
entitled to make. So whilst Mr P has made  several  sensible suggestions,  which Im sure 
NatWest will consider, I wont  be asking them to change the systems they have in place. 
the service provided
There were numerous  service failings that have been complained about here. I wont list 
everything individually, but these include failing  to respond to communications  and to send 
an email  as well as initially failing to correctly add an updated  password  correctly to Mr Ps 
account. 
Ref: DRN95680993NatWest themselves have  accepted that the service they provided  wasnt to the standard  
they usually aim for. They offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. So 
all that remains to be decided is whether  this is fair. Having taken everything into 
consideration, I think it is. I appreciate that this was a troubling time for Mr P. But much of 
the distress caused  is the responsibility  of the fraudster who (fortunately unsuccessfully) was 
trying to access Mr Ps accounts.  
I can only consider the impact of acts or omissions that NatWest are responsible for. And in 
doing so I think  the £100  compensation offered is fair in these circumstances. There  was 
always going to be some involvement required  by Mr P to resolve the actions of the 
fraudster. And whilst the service provided by NatWest could have been better, I dont think  
the impact was such that the compensation already offered needs to be increased. If this 
hasnt already been paid,  Mr P should contact NatWest to arrange this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568099