K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains, as one of the directors  of D, a limited company, that Barclays  Bank Plc, 
unfairly recovered £11,200 from the companys account.
background
On 9 October 2018 one of Ds customers bought goods worth  £6,000  and then nine days  
later the same customer bought goods worth  £5,200. The customer paid by credit card over 
the phone  and D delivered  the goods  later. Mr S says Barclays authorised  these payments 
but on 31 October 2018 Barclays wrote to D saying the first sale hadnt been authorised by 
the cardholder  and it said it was going to recover the money. On 14 November 2018  it wrote 
to D in similar terms about the second sale. Barclays has now closed Ds account and Mr S 
says D has had to stop trading.
Barclay said the cardholders had raised chargeback claims because  they hadnt made  the 
purchases. And it wasnt in a position  to defend the claims. It explained  to D that there is 
always a risk accepting  credit card transactions  when the cardholder isnt present. It 
reminded D of its guidelines  which say to merchants: Just  remember  that an authorisation 
only confirms there  are enough  funds in the account and that the card hasnt been reported 
as lost or stolen at that time. That means  it doesnt  guarantee payment or that the person 
paying is the genuine cardholder. So youre  automatically more at risk of taking fraudulent  
transactions and seeing chargeback claims..
It said it always advises merchants who have  taken a payment  over the phone that when the 
goods are collected  the transaction should  be cancelled and then reprocessed with the 
customer present with the credit card so the necessary identity  checks  can be made. It said 
in Ds case the names  on the cards didnt match the name of Ds customer. And D hadnt 
given it any evidence to show  itd carried out the appropriate identity checks when releasing 
the goods.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had done  anything wrong. He explained about the 
chargeback procedure and pointed out the guidance  Barclays  gave about accepting  
payments when the cardholder wasnt present. He also noted that Ds customer  used two 
different cards.  And that if D had followed Barclays guidance and checked the identity of the 
buyer when  it had an opportunity to do so, it wouldve realised the names on the cards  were 
different to the buyers name.
He could see from the terms and conditions of Ds account that Barclays  was entitled to 
close it if it reasonably suspected fraud.  In other words if it reasonably  suspected something 
might be wrong. So he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when it closed Ds 
account.
Mr S, on behalf of D, wasnt happy  with this and said Barclays treated D wrongly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres very little I can add to 
what hes said.
Ref: DRN94484612D didnt follow the guidance Barclays gave it for transactions carried  out when the cardholder 
wasnt present but goods are collected or delivered  after the initial  transaction.  These were 
two high value  transactions  and the buyer  used two different credit  cards.  But D didnt seem 
to carry out any reasonable checks on the cardholder. Mr S says he asked the buyer for 
some form of identification and the buyer  produced his driving licence and utility  bill. But 
those documents  werent in the name  of either  of the two cardholders.  
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong when it said it couldnt  defend  the two 
chargeback claims and debited the two amounts to Ds billing account. And for the same 
reasons given by our investigator I dont think it did anything wrong when it closed Ds 
account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
D to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9448461