K820x#14complaint
Miss R and Mr W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss R and Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
The PPI would have  covered Miss R only in the event that she couldnt  work through  
accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R and Mr W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss R and Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss R and Mr Ws complaint, and Ill explain why.
After such a long time,  I dont have much information about how Miss R and Mr W came  to 
buy the PPI. Ive not been given any notes of the meeting  in which  the PPI was sold.  So I 
dont know what was said. And Halifax hasnt been able to provide  copies  of the all actual 
paperwork that it thinks Miss R and Mr W wouldve  seen or signed  at the time of sale.  But 
thats not surprising as the sale took place over 22 years ago. So Ive had to decide what I 
thinks most likely  to have happened.
Halifax has provided me with a copy of a separate application for the PPI which  has been 
signed by Miss R. Ive thought carefully about  what Miss R and Mr W have said including 
that they felt the Halifax representative pressured them to take the policy.  Halifax has said 
the optional nature of the policy wouldve been explained. Ive not seen anything that clearly 
shows Halifax didnt make Miss R and Mr W aware the PPI was optional  and the 
representative may have  said Miss R and Mr W should take the PPI but thats different to 
saying they must take it. Pressure is a very subjective area and what  one person thinks is 
pressure another  may not  and I havent seen  anything to suggest  that they were 
pressured. So I cant fairly uphold the complaint  on this point.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Miss R and Mr W and from what  I have read and been 
told thats probably right. This meant  Halifax had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for them. And it seems to have  been right for them,  based  on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
Miss R was eligible  for the cover. And I dont think she wouldve been  affected by any 
of the main things  the policy didnt cover, for example any unusual employment  terms 
or pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ref: DRN91594902Miss R and Mr W say Miss R would have got six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay from her employer if she was off work unwell. Ive carefully  
considered Miss Rs circumstances and I think their mortgage wouldve been  an 
important and a relatively long-term  financial commitment for them and importantly,  
one which was secured against their home. So I think the consequences of them  not 
being able to keep up payments if their income had suddenly dropped, could have 
been serious. 
This policy would  have paid out for up to 12 months  had she been off work  for an 
accident or sickness  this wouldve  been in addition to any sick pay she was entitled 
to and I can see that Miss Rs sick pay would  have reduced significantly after six 
months.
The policy would also have paid for up to 12 months  if she lost her job and this also 
wouldve been in addition to any redundancy payment she might have got. So overall 
they couldve found the policy useful.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for Miss R and 
Mr W  or that they had a particular need  to keep the costs down. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further  cost if their situation 
changed or they no longer  wanted  it. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for Miss R 
and Mr W.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Miss R and Mr W, Halifax  also had to give them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Miss R and Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive explained I think  Miss R and Mr W chose the cover and for the 
reasons I mentioned above about why I think the policy  is suitable,  I dont  think  better 
information wouldve  stopped them from buying it.
I know Miss R and Mr W feel strongly,  and have put time and effort into their complaint. I 
realise theyll be disappointed by the outcome. And its difficult  to decide a complaint  when  I 
know so little about the sale. But on balance,  for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think 
theyve lost out because of anything  Halifax mayve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss R and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9159490