K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (BoS).
background
Mr L took out the PPI in November 2001 when he applied for a credit  card.  BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mr L was advised to take the cover. Mr L said the PPI 
was added to the card without his knowledge  and consent.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mr L had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim 
for accident and sickness, or 10 months for unemployment. The policy  also provided life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mr Ls credit card application  form. This shows a cross in a box to say 
that he wanted PPI (but no cross in a second box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other information  on the form, including  Mr Ls 
income and employment details.  So I think its most likely that the form was printed out after 
a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion.  I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mr L wouldve looked over the form he signed,  even if only briefly. 
So, on balance, I think Mr L was aware of the PPI and was given a choice about whether to 
take it - and that he agreed to it. I think he probably  just doesnt remember  doing so given 
that it was all so long ago.
Im satisfied that BoS advised Mr L to take out the policy. So BoS had to make sure that the 
PPI was suitable for Mr L. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mr L wouldve been affected by any of 
these. 
Mr L said he would have  been entitled  to statutory sick pay, and had no other  ways  of 
meeting the monthly repayments on the credit card. So I think he couldve  found it difficult to 
make the monthly  payments on the card if hed been  off sick or lost his job  and Ive kept in 
mind that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim (or 10 months for 
unemployment). So I dont think there was anything wrong with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ref: DRN98535322Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mr L. As Ive said,  I cant  know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr L mightve been given a policy summary or 
full policy  document.  So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mr Ls circumstances, I dont think more detailed  information about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed his decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
L paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr L back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already made this payment to Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9853532