K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
September 2000 alongside a credit  card.  Mr Y, who is represented by a third party,  says 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr Y didnt  have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what Ive seen about 
the card application  process, I think Mr Y made a decision to take out the policy  when he 
applied for the credit  card by filling out and signing an application form. Ive also seen 
that on the form hed signed again  in a separate section to show  he wanted to buy PPI. 
So I think, given  that he filled out the application in his own time,  Mr Y had the 
opportunity to think about whether he wanted  PPI to go with his new card and decided  
he did. 
Mr Y says BoS recommended he buy the PPI. But from what  Ive seen about the sale  
which looks as if it was sold by post  it seems  more  likely  to me that BoS didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mr Y, so didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it still had 
to make sure that Mr Y got the information  he needed to decide if he wanted to buy the 
PPI. Ive seen that the application form had some key information  about the policy  and 
how it works. And its likely that he would  have received further  policy details soon after 
hed decided  to buy the cover. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been 
useful to him if something went  wrong. 
I say this having taken into account  that Mr Y told us he enjoyed good benefits  from his 
employer if he couldnt work due to accident  or sickness  of up to six months  full pay 
followed by six months  at half pay. But the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, 
for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness.  And it would also pay 
out if he lost his job, for up to 10 months. It also meant he wouldnt  have to rely on other 
sources of funding, such as savings, to help out. The PPI also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr Y off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr Y paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr Y back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN96132032From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS has already  paid this to Mr Y. But if it hasnt for some 
reason, BoS can make  arrangements  to pay the offer sum to Mr Y now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613203