K821x#15complaint
Miss M and Mr S complain about  how Europ Assistance S.A. handled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy when Mr S fell ill abroad. 
background
Miss M and Mr S held a travel insurance policy covering themselves and their two children.  
The policy was provided by Europ Assistance. 
After checking  out of their hotel on the final day of their holiday abroad,  Mr S unfortunately 
fell ill and was taken to hospital. 
Miss M arranged for her youngest child to return to the UK with his grandparents on his 
original return flight. Miss M and her older  child remained abroad with Mr S. 
After Mr S was admitted to hospital, Miss M says she spent over ten hours  on the phone.  
Some of these calls were  to establish who her insurer was, as the seller of the policy hadnt 
sent her updated  documents.  When Miss M did get in touch with the correct insurer, Europ 
Assistance, she says it refused to arrange  accommodation for herself  and her child.  Miss M 
says she was told Europ  Assistance  couldnt do anything until two days  later, which  was the 
next working day, until the hospital  provided medical  notes about Mr Ss condition.  
The hospital  treating Mr S originally said Miss M and her child couldnt  stay there but, as 
they didnt have any alternative  accommodation, the hospital then agreed to let them  stay for 
the first night of Mr Ss admission.  
Miss M says she called Europ Assistance multiple times the following day to try to arrange 
accommodation for that night. Shortly after 8pm that evening, Europ Assistance sent Miss M 
a voucher for a hotel. Miss M says this hotel was some distance away from the hospital  and 
by that time shed  already  arranged  for her and her child to stay in a caravan park within  
walking distance  of the hospital. 
Europ Assistance provided Miss M with vouchers  for a hotel nearer the hospital  for a further 
two nights. However, when Mr S was discharged from hospital, Europ Assistance didnt 
arrange any accommodation for him. The hotel where Miss M and her daughter were staying 
agreed to change their room free of charge in order to accommodate  Mr S. 
Miss M and Mr S say there was then a delay by Europ Assistance in arranging new return 
flights to the UK for them, and Europ Assistance lost their passport details which caused 
further delays.  
After returning  to the UK, Miss M and Mr S complained to both the seller of their travel 
insurance policy and to Europ Assistance. 
Europ Assistance sent Miss M and Mr S a final response letter by email. It said it was unable  
to arrange accommodation for Miss M and her child during Mr Ss first night in hospital as it 
didnt have a medical report  for Mr S. But it said Miss M could have paid for accommodation 
herself and asked Europ Assistance to reimburse  this afterwards. 
Europ Assistance said it tried to contact Miss M on a number  of occasions after receiving  
Ref: DRN96044362Mr Ss medical report to confirm it would  be arranging  accommodation,  and hotel availability 
in high season delayed reservations being  made. It said accommodation  for the final night 
had been booked before  it knew Mr S was being  discharged and, although it acknowledged 
a failure in communications about new return flights, it said these had been arranged  as a 
matter of urgency.  
Miss M and Mr S remained  unhappy with Europ Assistances  response  so they brought their 
complaint to our service. Our investigator  upheld the complaint and recommended  that 
Europ Assistance should refund Miss M for the money shed  paid for the caravan park. As 
our investigator didnt think Europ Assistance had handled the claim well, she also 
recommended that it should pay a total of £1,400 compensation for the trouble and upset 
experienced by Miss M, Mr S and their child. 
Miss M and Mr S accepted our investigators  recommendations but Europ Assistance didnt 
respond, so the complaint  has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M and Mr S also brought  a complaint to us about the seller  of their travel  insurance 
policy, which has been dealt with under a separate complaint reference number. I wont  be 
commenting on the sellers actions here. In making  this decision, Ive only considered Europ 
Assistances actions as the underwriter of Miss M and Mr Ss policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss M and Mr Ss policy say Europ Assistance will pay for 
medical and repatriation expenses (including  reasonable  and necessary additional  
accommodation) which  have been  authorised by the emergency assistance  company. The 
policy goes on to say:
Europ Assistance will provide immediate help if You are ill or injured outside the 
United Kingdom.  They provide a 24-hour  emergency  service 365 days  a year. 
Europ Assistance also has obligations under industry rules and guidance set out by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. These obligations  include handling  claims promptly and fairly 
and providing  reasonable  guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, as well as providing 
appropriate information on the progress  of a claim. 
This means  Europ Assistance should have provided - and Miss M and Mr S were  entitled to 
expect - a reasonable level of assistance when Mr S fell ill abroad.  
Miss M and Mr S have  provided what I think is persuasive and consistent evidence about 
what happened while they were abroad. They have given detailed  accounts about the 
content of a number of telephone conversations Miss M had with named individuals  at Europ 
Assistance. This is supported by itemised telephone bills showing calls made from the date 
Mr S was admitted to hospital until the day Miss M, Mr S and their child flew home. 
Ive also taken into account everything Europ  Assistance has said in its response to Miss M 
and Mr S and in its submissions to this service. However, much of what  Europ Assistance 
has said isnt supported by the type of evidence which Id usually  expect to see from a 
business handling a claim involving a medical  emergency abroad.  
Ref: DRN96044363Europ Assistance has sent us extracts from email chains between  its agents and Miss M but 
these dont seem to be complete and it hasnt sent us any correspondence  it had with the 
treating hospital.  Despite  repeated requests from our investigator,  Europ Assistance hasnt 
sent us its notes showing the telephone contact it had with Miss M throughout the course of 
the claim.  Europ Assistance has sent us over 20 call recordings  but these have no date or 
time references on them and I think, on balance, its likely there were further calls between  
Miss M and Europ Assistance which it hasnt provided us with information about. 
Therefore, when deciding what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances, 
Ive given more  weight to what Miss M and Mr S have  told us.  
Europ Assistance says it was unable to arrange accommodation  for Miss M and her child on 
the first night of Mr Ss hospital admission  because it didnt have access to medical reports  
from the treating  hospital. An insurer is entitled  to make reasonable enquiries, including  
requesting relevant medical information,  to satisfy itself theres  a valid claim under a policy  
before confirming cover. However  I dont think its fair or reasonable for an insurer to leave  a 
policyholder without any assistance  whatsoever  while it makes enquiries  about a claim.
I understand Europ  Assistance offered Miss M the option of paying for her own 
accommodation and seeking reimbursement later. However, Europ Assistance was aware  
Miss M was in a vulnerable position.  Her partner  was in hospital,  having been rushed there 
in a potentially  very serious condition, and Miss M was otherwise alone  with a young  child in 
a foreign country. Miss M says she told Europ Assistance she didnt have  the financial 
means to pay for accommodation herself. 
In these circumstances, I think there  was more Europ Assistance could have done to assist  
Miss M. For example, Europ Assistance could have considered accepting the claim on a 
disclaimer basis, it could have contacted the hospital on Miss Ms behalf to see what  
assistance the hospital might have been able to provide, or it could simply have given 
Miss M some help sourcing budget accommodation  in a country where she didnt speak the 
native language. Ive seen  no evidence  that Europ Assistance considered any of these 
options. 
Instead, Miss M was left to make her own arrangements for accommodation for herself and 
her child at what was already an upsetting  and stressful  time. As a result, Miss M and her 
child spent an uncomfortable  night in the hospital in difficult conditions and Mr S was also 
distressed by the situation, as he was understandably anxious about  his familys wellbeing.  
Miss M says she spent a significant amount of time the following day trying to get in touch 
with Europ Assistance  but the calls she made were continually answered by non-English  
speakers and she was transferred to a Spanish-speaking switchboard  or hung up on, with no 
alternative contact number provided to her. The telephone bills which Miss M has sent us 
and some of the call recordings which Europ Assistance has provided supports Miss Ms 
version of events.
 
Europ Assistance says it tried to contact Miss M throughout  this day after it received Mr Ss 
medical report, but Ive seen no evidence of this. The earliest  communication Ive seen on 
Europ Assistances file is an email  shortly after 8pm when it sent Miss M a voucher for a 
hotel. By this time,  Miss M had been  without accommodation and washing facilities  for her 
and her child for 32 hours. She had already  arranged, at further  inconvenience  to herself, to 
stay at a caravan park within walking distance of the hospital  that night.
Ref: DRN96044364Given the length of time Miss M had already waited, her failed attempts to get meaningful  
updates from Europ Assistance throughout the day and her concerns about how she would 
pay to get to and from the hospital, I dont  think Miss M acted unreasonably by arranging  her 
own accommodation. Although Europ Assistance provided a hotel voucher late in the day for 
that night, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for it to also reimburse  
Miss M for the money she paid to stay in the caravan with her child. Europ Assistance has 
already been provided with a receipt for this. 
The next day, two days after Mr S had been  admitted  to hospital, Europ Assistance offered 
Miss M the choice of staying at a number of hotels closer to the hospital. Miss M confirmed 
her choice of hotel to Europ Assistance.
I think Miss Ms distress and frustration  at the situation is apparent  from her subsequent  
emails and telephone calls to Europ Assistance. Miss M asked for an update on the hotel 
booking numerous  times,  as she said she and her child had nowhere  to go. Miss M also 
mentioned her concerns about  having  to move  suitcases and being needed back  at the 
hospital. 
One of Europ Assistances email responses  to Miss M said it would keep her updated but 
Ive seen no evidence  that it proactively did this. Ive also seen no evidence  that Europ 
Assistance called or attempted  to call Miss M back as promised during some of the call 
recordings which Europ Assistance has provided  to us. The email correspondence which 
Ive seen ends  just before 5pm on this day, at which point a hotel still hadnt been booked  for 
Miss M and her child. I understand  this was peak season but theres no indication  from 
Europ Assistances file that hotel availability caused  a delay in arranging a new booking.  
Mr S was discharged three days after being admitted to hospital.  Miss M says she spent a 
significant amount  of time trying  to contact Europ Assistance  on the day Mr S was 
discharged. Ive seen  emails from Miss M to Europ Assistance on that day asking it to call 
her, but Ive seen no evidence that any call backs happened. In an email at around  8.30pm, 
Miss M said she had been trying  to contact Europ Assistance  for the past half an hour as 
shed not heard anything  back from Europ Assistance. 
It seems  Europ  Assistance told Miss M at one point that Mr S would need to request his own 
medical report and provide it to Europ Assistance before a room and flight would be 
organised for him. I dont  think  this was a fair or reasonable position for Europ Assistance to 
take and I see no reason  why it couldnt  have  requested the medical  report directly from the 
hospital at the outset.
Europ Assistance says it received Mr Ss medical report  at 6.50pm on the day of Mr Ss 
discharge but, by that time, accommodation had already been arranged  for Miss M and her 
child. I see no reason why Europ Assistance couldnt have assisted with changing the 
accommodation so Mr S had somewhere to stay and I think  its failure to do so was unfair 
and unreasonable in the circumstances. Mr S was in a vulnerable position having just been 
discharged from hospital  and I have no doubt  the situation will have been worrying for both 
Mr S and Miss M, as well as upsetting  and inconvenient for them and their child.  
At around 10pm on the day Mr S was discharged from hospital, Europ Assistance asked 
Miss M for their passport  details. Miss M says these details were subsequently lost by Europ 
Assistance, causing  a further delay to the flight booking. I think its likely, on balance, that 
Miss Ms version  of events on this point is accurate and Im satisfied this will have caused 
Ref: DRN96044365further upset and stress for Miss M and Mr S, who were anxious to return  to the UK to be 
with their younger child.  
I think its also clear  Europ Assistance  didnt  give Miss M and Mr S an appropriate  level of 
information or keep  them  suitably updated  about their return  flight  arrangements. 
Miss M, Mr S and their daughter  returned  to the UK the day after Mr S was discharged  from 
hospital. Europ  Assistance  emailed Miss M at 1.35pm with boarding  cards and confirmation  
that a taxi was due to pick them up at 2pm for a 5.15pm return flight. Ive seen no evidence 
of any other  communications or updates  from Europ  Assistance to Miss M and Mr S on that 
day. I think Europ  Assistances failure to keep  Miss M and Mr S updated and providing them 
with flight details at such short  notice can only have added to the distress which  they and 
their child were already  experiencing.  
Ive also taken into account Miss M and Mr Ss comments  that Europ Assistance hadnt 
arranged for their daughter to sit with either  of her parents on the return  flight. I think, given 
the age of Miss M and Mr Ss daughter, it would have been reasonable for Europ Assistance 
to have given  some consideration to this when arranging  the new flights. 
Overall, I dont  think Europ Assistance handled  this claim well. I dont think  it provided  
Miss M and Mr S with a fair or reasonable level of assistance while  they were abroad and it 
didnt communicate  with Miss M and Mr S or keep them  updated in the way I think  it should  
have. 
I think Miss M, Mr S and their child suffered significant distress and inconvenience  as a 
result of Europ Assistances actions in this case. Mr S was already unwell and had the 
added stress  of worrying about  his familys welfare, where he would stay when he was 
discharged from hospital  and when  he and his family would return home. Miss M was left 
without assistance  in a foreign country  when she had limited means, while accompanied by 
a young child.  Ive taken into account what Miss M has said about  the likely impact  of the 
situation on her existing medical  condition, as well as what  she has told us about  the impact  
of these events  on her older  child. 
Having considered all of the circumstances,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for Europ 
Assistance to pay Miss M, Mr S and their older  child compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced. I think the compensation  payment should  fall within  the 
category which  this service considers as substantial. 
As a final point, I can see Miss M and Mr Ss policy includes provision for the payment of 
hospital benefit in certain  circumstances. Its not clear  from the information  Ive seen whether 
Mr S has made a claim  to Europ Assistance for a hospital benefit  payment but he may wish 
to consider doing so, if he hasnt already.  
Ref: DRN96044366my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss M and Mr Ss complaint and direct Europ Assistance 
S.A to do the following;
Reimburse Miss M for the money she paid to the caravan park,  together  with interest 
at 8% simple per year from the date of payment until the date settlement is paid1;
Pay Miss M and Mr S a total of £1,400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience which they and their older  child experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2020
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If Europ Assistance S.A. considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss M and Mr S how much it has taken off. It should  also give Miss M 
and Mr S a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs.  
Ref: DRN9604436