K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited wrongly  settled another  
drivers claim  against Mr Ls motor insurance policy, on which Mrs L is the named driver.   
background
Calpe received a report  from another driver that Mr and Mrs Ls car had hit her stationary  
car from behind, and damaged it, before driving away. Calpe settled the other drivers claim 
for about £1,000 and wanted to charge Mr L that, as he had a policy  excess of £3,000.
Mrs L was driving the car that day, but she denied having hit the other  car. She said she 
wasnt there at that precise time and her car wasnt damaged. She felt that Calpe settled 
the other drivers claim without considering her account properly and that Mr L shouldnt 
have to pay anything. 
The adjudicator though  that Calpes decision to settle the other drivers claim, rather than 
go to court, was reasonable and in line with their rights under the policy. Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed and so their case  has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide whos liable for causing an accident. That is a matter  for the 
courts. But we do consider whether a business has acted in line with their policy  terms, and 
whether they have  reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. In this case, Mr Ls 
policy gives Calpe discretion to take over and deal with the defence and settlement of any 
claim. If there is little or no prospect of success,  Calpe may decide  to limit their potential 
financial outlay for legal and associated costs, by agreeing a settlement out of court.  
Insurers have experience of handling numerous claims and sound knowledge of court 
proceedings, so this discretion is a usual part of motor insurance policies.
Mr and Mrs L were  upset  about the claim and how Calpe had settled it. Mrs L said that she 
would have known  if she had hit another car, she wasnt there at the alleged time,  but was 
at her childrens school at the time of the incident, and there was no damage to their car. 
Calpe arranged for an engineer assessor  to inspect Mr and Mrs Ls car. The inspectors 
report showed that there was damage to the front of their car above  its number  plate and 
that this was consistent with their car having hit another car in the rear. 
But Mrs L said that their cars  damage  was minimal, merely a stone  chip, and hadnt been 
caused by colliding with another car. But Calpe also looked at photographs  and considered  
that even if their cars damage was minor, it was still consistent  with the damage to the 
other car. And because Mrs L couldnt show shed been at the school at the time of the 
incident, Calpe decided they wouldnt be able to successfully defend the other drivers claim 
in court.  Ive checked the terms  of her policy and see that it does give Calpe discretion to 
decide that.
Ref: DRN99203672Mrs L said that Calpe had lost her report about  the matter.  But I think that Calpe were  
aware of her view,  because the engineer said in his inspection report  that she denied any 
incident with another car. Unfortunately, it is possible for damage to occur to one car in a 
minor collision, with very little or no obvious damage to the other. For that reason, we 
normally rely on evidence  provided by qualified  engineers who have inspected the car. I am 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Calpe to rely on the available evidence in reaching the 
conclusion that they would be unlikely  to succeed  if the matter  went to court.
So I think that Calpe did sufficient investigation into the claim before settling. They also 
checked that the repair and hire car costs that the other driver claimed were reasonable. I 
can see why Mrs L feels unhappy  about Calpes decision and I appreciate  that it has come 
at a difficult time personally.  But I can only look at whether Caple did anything wrong. And, 
based on the available evidence, I dont think that they acted unfairly or unreasonably  in 
settling the claim as they did.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, it is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.  
Rosslyn Scott 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9920367