K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC applied a refund to his account rather than paying 
him directly. He also says he should  be compensated for the distress and inconvenience  
caused by his debt being higher than it should  have been.
background
Mr M says that Lloyds contacted him in November 2018 about interest and charges that had 
been applied  to his account  in error. He says that although  the mistake  had been  noted he 
didnt think adequate consideration had been  given to the impact overstating  of his debt had 
had on him. He asked  that Lloyds pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
he had been caused as well as paying him the £314.41 refund direct.  However Lloyds 
applied the refund to Mr Ms account.
Lloyds says that Mr Ms account  was closed more than six years  ago and transferred to its 
recoveries team. At this time no further  interest or charges  were  applied. It says a review 
was undertaken  and it agreed to refund interest  and charges totalling £314.41. It says it 
followed its correct process by applying the refund to the account to reduce  the outstanding 
balance.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said our role was to put customers back  in 
the position they would have been had the mistake not been  made  and that by applying  the 
refund to Mr Ms account,  Lloyds had done this. Given the refund occurred a number of 
years after the account was closed she didnt think that an award for distress  and 
inconvenience was appropriate.
Our investigator noted that given the size of the debt on Mr Ms account  she didnt think the 
£314.41 would have made  a significant different to Mr Ms overall situation  at that time. She 
also said that Lloyds  had issued its final response within the required  timeframe.
Mr M did not accept our investigators view. He said he had not received a copy  of the final 
response letter dated 11 December 2018  until this was sent by our service  and he raised 
concerns about  how Lloyds  had handled  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its merits. I take relevant regulations into account  but my decision is based  on what  I 
consider fair and reasonable given the unique  circumstances of the complaint.
This complaint relates to the notification Mr M received about interest and / or charges that 
were applied to his account incorrectly. Mr M has previously raised complaints in regard to 
his account which have been  considered. I note that Lloyds  referred to issues  arising more 
than six years ago not being considered. However  I dont think  this is relevant for this 
complaint as it relates to a letter Mr M received in November 2018  and so he was only aware 
of the refund  at that time
Mr M says that he asked for the refund to be made directly to him but Lloyds applied this to 
his account. While I understand  why Mr M wished to receive the money I do not find that 
Lloyds did anything wrong by applying the refund to his account. When  a mistake is made 
Ref: DRN90241642our role is to decide what if anything  the business is required to do to put this right.  In this 
case Lloyds identified a mistake, contacted  Mr M about this and applied  the refund  to his 
account. This will have reduced  his debt to the amount it would have been had the incorrect  
charges and / or interest  not been applied. Because of this I find this is a reasonable 
approach.
Mr M has also said that adequate consideration has not been given to the trouble caused  by 
his debt being higher than it should have  been. While I appreciate the point Mr M has made, 
I do not find that compensation is required in this case. I have no evidence  to show that the 
additional amount had a material  impact on Mr M. The issue occurred a long time ago, and I 
dont find that receiving notification of a refund now will have  caused  significant distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr M has raised concerns  about how Lloyds has handled his complaint. As our investigator 
has explained this service cannot  consider issues relating to the activity of complaint 
handling. Because of this I havent considered  this issue  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024164