K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms F complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined  their claim 
under their travel insurance policy following a delay in a ferry trip after  leaving the UK and 
before arriving at their final foreign destination.
background
Mr C and Ms F arranged a trip from the UK to a foreign destination that was entirely  by rail 
and ferry. No flights were involved.  Part of the journey to their final destination involved a 
ferry journey. This ferry journey was from a foreign port. Unfortunately  due to bad weather,  
their booked sailing was cancelled and they had to catch a ferry the following day to their 
final destination. They were delayed for 23 hours. They had to incur additional 
accommodation and subsistence costs.
Mr C and Ms F had travel insurance with URV. They accept that their policy  doesnt cover  
them for their additional costs, but they do maintain  that that theyre  entitled  to make a claim 
under the Trip disruption  section of the policy. This would provide them with £30 each for 
each 12 hours that they were delayed. As they were delayed for 23 hours,  they say that URV 
should pay them £30 each.
URV declined their claim. It referred to that part of their policy (Part B1) that is headed If 
your travel plans are disrupted. This says:
We will pay£30 trip disruption allowance per 12 hour period up to a maximum of 
£300 if:
the departure  of your international flight,  international  train or
sailing is delayed for more than 12 hours from its scheduled
departure time from your international departure point
The policy provides a definition of international departure  point. This is:
the airport,  international rail terminal or port from which you departed from the United 
Kingdom, Channel  Islands or BFPO to your destination, and from where you depart  
to begin the final part of your journey home  at the end of your trip.
URV maintains that the delay that Mr C and Ms F experienced wasnt a delay at their 
international departure point, i.e. the UK, and that their policy doesnt extend  to cover for a 
delay in a departure at any other point during their trip. It says that unfortunately the 
circumstances they describe  dont fall within any of the areas of cover  provided by their 
policy.
Ms C and Ms F believe that the rejection of their claim is unreasonable. They maintain that 
since departing  the UK (which was by rail), they hadnt yet arrived at their final destination 
before their delayed ferry journey occurred. Their  outward travel  from the UK had only taken 
them part of the way there.
They say that the policy is misleading in that it doesnt make clear that theres no cover for 
disruption when  the disruption occurs while still on the way to a holiday destination. They 
refer to Section  B1 of the policy, and say that theres  nothing to suggest  that the travel 
disruption allowance should be denied in these circumstances. They also refer to the 
Significant Conditions  and Exclusions section of their policy summary which  states that the 
Ref: DRN97644192policy .Provides cover if your flight, sea crossing, coach or train departure  is delayed by at 
least 12 hours Ive been  unable to find the wording they refer to in the policy  document.
URV maintains its position, so Mr C and Ms F brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator initially thought that URV  had been  unreasonable and that their complaint should 
be upheld. After URV provided  further  clarification, our investigator reconsidered his view,  
and concluded  that their complaint shouldnt  be upheld after all. 
Mr C and Ms F have now asked that their complaint be considered by an ombudsman. As an 
ombudsman specialising  in travel insurance complaints, their complaint has been passed to 
me for my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Cs and Ms Fs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Whilst I have sympathy with the fact that Mr C and Ms F experienced a delay in arriving at 
their final destination,  I think the policy wording is clear.  A claim for a delay of 12 hours or 
more can only be made when the delay  occurs at the International Departure  Point , and 
this is defined. Ive quoted it above.  It specifically refers  to departure from the United 
Kingdom. I dont  think there is any ambiguity in this wording  that would be clarified  by adding 
the words and from no other place along the way until you reach your final destination  or 
something similar.
Mr C and Ms F argue  that their outward travel  by rail and ferry from the UK had not resulted  
in them  arriving at their (final) destination before their delayed  ferry journey. But their travel 
from the UK had resulted in them arriving at the destination to which  their initial method of 
travel was taking them.  For example, had they planned to travel by ferry from, say, Dover to 
Calais, and then to travel on from Calais to another destination, Calais  would have been 
their destination for the purposes  of their travel from their point  of international departure,  
namely Dover. 
The wording  used in URVs  policy is very standard wording in most travel  insurance policies. 
It is not at all exceptional. Occasionally reference  may be made in a policy to delays to 
connecting flights, but that is a rather different situation to a trip involving a number  of days 
travelling to various places involving a number  of separate journeys, as Mr Cs and Ms Fs 
trip did. Cover for such situations would be expensive because of the increased  risks 
involved with multiple journeys.  
If it were not clear from the wording of Section B1, which  I think  it is, support for the fact that 
their policy with URV isnt intended to cover anything apart  from delay to the initial outward 
and final inbound  travel from and to the UK can be found in the section at the foot of page 20 
of their policy document which  is highlighted Be aware !. This says:
No cover is provided under this section for
 connecting  flights once you have left your international  departure point on either 
your outbound or return journey.
Although this refers  to flights, I think it would equally apply to breaks in a journey taken by 
other means  of transport.
Ref: DRN97644193My conclusion is that although I sympathise  with Mr C and Ms F, I dont consider that the 
policy is misleading nor that URV has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim 
in these circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Cs and Ms Fs complaint and Im not 
going to ask Union Reiseversicherung AG to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.    
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9764419