K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the quality  of repairs carried  out by Watford Insurance  Company 
Europe Limited following a claim she made under her car insurance policy. 
I will refer to Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited and its agents  as WICEL. 
background
In September  2018 Miss W was involved in an accident. She contacted  WICEL  which  
arranged repairs for the damage caused  to the front of her car. 
When Miss W got her car back  from the garage, she said repairs hadnt  been carried out 
effectively and there was an issue with the gear box. Miss W also said the garage replaced 
the bottom  part of the front grille but it doesnt match the colour of the top grille. 
WICEL instructed an independent engineer to inspect Miss Ws car. The engineer reported 
that the issues she had highlighted werent related to the accident, and therefore  wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. 
Miss W was unhappy about this. She said her car passed an MOT  test two weeks prior to 
the accident, and her car had been  working  without  any issues.  Miss W asked WICEL  if it 
would pay to have  the car inspected by a gear box specialist. But it didnt agree to do this. 
So Miss W paid for her gear box to be inspected and replaced with a new unit. 
 
Miss Ws independent engineer said that the damage couldve been caused  by the accident. 
WICEL reviewed this but maintained its position that the damage  Miss W raised wasnt  
related to the accident. 
Miss W brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked at whats  
happened. She didnt  think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld as she was more 
persuaded the damage Miss W reported  wasnt related to the accident.  As Miss W remains 
unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I appreciate  
this will disappoint Miss W, Im not upholding her complaint and will explain why. 
In circumstances  where conflicting information  is present, I must decide which information 
Im more persuaded  by. And in Miss Ws case, Im minded to agree that the damage Miss W 
highlighted wasnt related to the accident. 
Ref: DRN91114882The independent report obtained by WICEL lists the issues Miss W raised  and the experts 
opinion of the cause which follows: 
1) A smell of gas in the interior of the vehicle since the repairs  have been completed. 
The repairers have  investigated this and have found  that the transmission transfer  box is 
very low on oil and that this is what the smell is, not claim related  but the owners 
responsibility to pay for the work to be undertaken asap  to avoid potential damage 
and/or loss of drive.  
2) Service light has been illuminated  since  the repairs have been completed.  
The repairers have  had the dealership check this and it was found to be a rear exhaust  
sensor fault, it has been reset, not claim related, but owners responsibility to pay for the 
work to be undertaken
3) The original upper  bumper grille is faded compared to the new lower grille,  wear  and tear 
no further action.
Miss W paid for an independent  engineer  to assess the fault with the gear box and fit a 
replacement unit. Miss Ws engineer said that the damage to the gear box couldve been 
caused by the sudden  impact of the accident.  But Im more persuaded by the report  provided 
by WICEL as I found it was more conclusive than Miss Ws. 
This is because WICELs independent report provides a reasonable explanation  as to why 
the faults are present.  Whereas, Miss Ws independent engineer  said the fault to the gear 
box couldve  been caused by the accident.  This isnt conclusive enough to persuade me to 
agree that WICEL has acted unreasonably  here. 
The independent engineer appointed by WICEL provided further comments in January 2019.  
He said that no impact damage  was found  on the underside of Miss Ws car. They also said 
that the damage was due to an internal mechanical failure due to low oil level and a 
breakdown of the internal  drive components. 
Ive looked at the photos of the damage  that occurred to Miss Ws car. And Im not 
persuaded the impact was substantial enough  to have caused internal damage to Miss Ws 
car. I would expect damage to be present to the underside of her car or around the 
transmission box if the impact had caused  the damage. 
Miss W said her car had undergone and passed  an MOT test two weeks  before the accident 
took place, which shows her car was working  fine prior to the accident. I have checked 
Miss Ws MOT history which shows her car initially failed the MOT due to defects with both 
front suspension arm pins being excessively worn. However the defects were put right and 
Miss Ws car passed  the MOT, with the advisories about a front offside  oil leak,  and a front 
headlamp not working.
But whats  important to explain  here is that an MOT is a test to check  whether a car meets 
road safety and environmental standards. What an MOT test doesnt  cover is checks of the 
condition of the engine, clutch and gearbox. So Im not in agreement  with Miss W that the 
MOT test shows no faults were present with the gear box prior to the accident. This is 
because the damaged gear box wouldnt have been something that was checked  during that 
test and therefore issues wouldnt have flagged up. 
Ref: DRN91114883Based on the evidence  provided by WICEL and Miss W, Im persuaded that its more  likely 
than not that the damage wasnt related to the accident. I think WICEL has reasonably 
investigated and justified its decision not to cover the further issues Miss W raised under the 
policy. 
Miss W said she wasnt happy  that the garage replaced the bottom part of the front grille but 
not the top half. She said that the grilles no longer match as the bottom part is black,  but the 
top half is now worn due to weathering. 
Im unable to agree  that WICEL should replace the top grille  because the top grille has 
discoloured due to wear  and tear and not because  of the accident. WICEL has replaced the 
damaged grille with a reasonable  replacement that I dont think  is an unfair  mis-match  based 
on the photos I have seen. So I dont  require it to do anything else here because its acted 
fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.  
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9111488