K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about how National Westminster Bank Plc has dealt with a secured 
business loan,  in particular that the outstanding balance is wrong. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a secured business loan with NatWest in 2004. The loan was used to 
refinance a loan from a different provider. Mr and Mrs T say they were told the loan would be 
on the same  terms as the loan from the previous provider but with a lower interest rate and 
no arrangement or valuation fees.  Mr and Mrs T have a number of concerns about the loan.
Our adjudicator said that we couldnt  look at all of the issues raised by Mr and Mrs T as they 
hadnt been brought to us within  our time limits. We can consider their concerns  that:
the outstanding balance is incorrect. They didnt borrow the amount NatWests say they 
did. NatWest cant  provide clear information about  the amount it paid to the previous 
lender in 2004. 
NatWest applied an incorrect rate of interest  which is higher than the previous lender. It 
applied compound interest  and added interest  to the account balance despite  it being 
paid on time.
NatWest didnt explain the consequences  of taking  a payment holiday. It didnt say 
interest would  be applied during the holiday or that this would extend the term. Mr and 
Mrs T say they didnt ask for the second payment holiday. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
limited information from NatWest and Mr and Mrs T about many of the issues raised. But 
what NatWest had said appeared  reasonable  and theres no evidence  the information  it 
provided was incorrect  or that it treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree. Mrs T sent a loan statement  from the previous lender to show the 
amount paid to redeem  the loan. Mrs T also said that NatWest changed the term of the loan 
three times without their consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
was the original amount of the loan correct?
NatWest says the loan was taken out on 26 November 2004  and the amount was £390,500. 
The interest rate was 1.25% above  the base rate and the term was 15 years. The original 
maturity date of the loan was 26 November 2019.
Ref: DRN90075332Mrs T says this isnt right. She says the loan was taken out to re-finance an existing loan. 
She provided statements from the previous  lender which  says the credit received into the 
loan account with the previous lender was about £366,000. 
The account  statements  for Mr and Mrs Ts current account with NatWest show that on 
26 November 2004 there was a credit of £390,500 into the account. I think  this was the 
proceeds of the loan.  This is consistent  with what NatWest has said about the amount of the 
loan taken out by Mr and Mrs T in 2004.
There was a CHAPS payment from Mr and Mrs Ts current account on 26 November 2004  of 
about £385,000. Its likely  this payment was to the previous lender. £366,000 was credited to 
their commercial mortgage account with the previous  lender. I dont know  what  happened  to 
the remainder.  I think the most likely  explanation is that Mr and Mrs T had another account 
(such as a loan or overdraft) which was also repaid using the loan proceeds.
The remaining  amount,  about £5,000, remained in the current  account. It reduced  the 
overdraft. 
Mr and Mrs T would  have  been sent statements  for the loan account and the current  
account. If the original  loan balance or the amount transferred to the previous lender were  
incorrect, Id have expected them to raise  this at the time. I dont think, on balance,  the 
available evidence shows  that NatWest made an error with the initial loan amount.
the interest applied to the loan
The loan has an interest rate of 1.25% above  base rate. If this wasnt  the rate Mr and Mrs T 
thought theyd agreed when they took out the loan, Id have expected  them to raise  this at 
the time.  The interest rate changes if theres a change  in the base rate. NatWest  has 
provided information about the changes. I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Mr and 
Mrs T made interest  payments which NatWest didnt  apply to the account.  
the repayment holidays
Mr and Mrs T took two repayment  holidays:  the first from March 2007  to February 2008 and 
the second from July 2009 and June 2010.  
During these periods,  Mr and Mrs T didnt make repayments of capital. So the amount of 
capital owed would not have reduced  as expected when the loan was taken out.
NatWest says a repayment  holiday would usually  only be for capital: interest should still be 
paid. However, during  the first repayment  holiday, interest  wasnt paid. Most of the interest 
applied during the second repayment holiday was paid from the current  account.  As interest  
was applied and not paid,  the amount owed increased. 
Once the repayment holiday ended  the loan balance  had to be repaid, by either extending 
the term or increasing  the amount of the monthly payments. After the first repayment holiday 
the term was extended  by 12 months.  After the second repayment holiday the term was 
extended by 27 months.  The loan term now ends  in 2023. 
Mrs T says they didnt ask for the second payment holiday. I think  its unlikely NatWest 
would have imposed a repayment holiday. And Id have expected  Mr and Mrs T to raise their 
concerns at the time if they wanted  to continue with repayments. 
Ref: DRN90075333Mrs T also says they werent told that interest  would be applied  during the repayment  holiday 
or that it would extend the term. But this doesnt mean that NatWest  was wrong to apply 
interest. And the capital still needs  to be repaid  either by increasing  the amount of each 
monthly payment  or extending the term. 
NatWest doesnt  have notes from that time.  So I dont know why the repayment  holidays 
were needed  or if Mr and Mrs T were in a position  to make interest payments. I dont know 
what Mr and Mrs T were  told about  the consequences of the repayment holidays.
But without further  evidence I cant reasonably find that NatWest misled  Mr and Mrs T. And I 
dont know that Mr and Mrs T would have acted differently if theyd known more about the 
consequences of the payment holidays. It seems likely that their circumstances at the time 
meant they couldnt  maintain monthly  loan repayments.
what should happen now?
Its unfortunate that we dont have more  information  about what happened  here.  I 
understand that Mr and Mrs T want to know that the outstanding balance on their loan 
account is correct. And I appreciate that they want to understand why the loan term has 
been extended. NatWest says its provided as much  information it can. It asked its 
recalculations team  to review the loan, in particular to check  the interest rate and the effect 
of the repayment  holidays. I think NatWest provided  a reasonable explanation for the 
matters raised by Mr and Mrs T. 
I havent seen  evidence that NatWest  made  an error. In the circumstances, I dont think its 
reasonable to require  NatWest to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007533