K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly  held him at fault for 
a claim against his motor  insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr H has been  helped by his father. But for ease, I'll refer to Mr Hs 
fathers comments as being those  of Mr H.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr H was driving on a motorway slip road when his car was in a collision  with a lorry. Both 
drivers said the other  was to blame.  CIS felt that it couldn't defend the other  drivers claim.  
So it held Mr H at fault for the incident.
Mr H didn't think CIS had dealt with him fairly  and brought  his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought CIS had dealt  with the matter  reasonably. Mr H didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Hs policy  allows CIS 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt  require Mr Hs consent to decide how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr H doesnt  agree  with. But Ill look to see 
that its done so reasonably.
In this case the incident happened on a slip road where two lanes became one. Mr H had 
been in the outside  lane and the lorry driver  in the inside lane on the left. Mr H said that he 
was on the right-hand side of the now merged lane for about 10m when the lorry ran into the 
back of him. The lorry driver  said that Mr H cut in front of him forcing him to brake  and the 
vehicles to come together.
Theres no independent witness evidence, dash cam or other video  footage of the incident 
available. So, the only evidence is in the drivers statements, drawings and photographs. 
The photographs of Mr H's car showed  that the impact was on its rear left hand panel and 
the left of the bumper. The damage to the lorry shows  that its damage is to its bumper to the 
front right. Mr H says that means that the lorry ran into the back  of his car. 
But the damage to the lorrys bumper is where it curves  round from the front of the lorry and 
carrying on towards the righthand side. And that would appear to be consistent with an 
incident where a car came across  it from the right. I understand  that Mr H disagrees. In his 
opinion the damage from the images could  only have been caused  either  by the lorry 
running into the back of the car or by the car reversing  into the lorry. But it's clear that wasn't  
how CIS interpreted the images as it thinks that the damage shows  Mr Hs car coming 
across it with its rear panel  hitting  the bumper. And from a lay perspective  I think  CIS 
investigation and interpretation of the situation is reasonable, as the images would seem to 
support its conclusions more than Mr Hs argument.  And I don't think  CIS would pay a claim 
Ref: DRN99359622where it didn't  think it had to, as it won't  be able to recover its outlay. It follows  that I think its 
decision to settle  the claim as it did was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9935962