K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Gold  Service 
and Platinum packaged bank accounts.
She says that she was led to believe that agreeing to the accounts would help facilitate the 
repayment of personal loans.  Ms B says that she didnt need  many  of the account benefits 
as she was able to get them through her employer. 
background
Ms Bs account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free  account  January 1983
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold Service account   sometime prior to September 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum  account   March 2004
Account closed   September 2011
In response to Ms Bs complaint, Lloyds did not think  it had mis-sold either  of the packaged  
accounts. But after the complaint was referred to our service, Lloyds then agreed to refund all of the 
packaged account fees Ms B spent  on the Gold Service account, plus 8% simple interest, less tax. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint. He didnt look into whether  the Gold  
Service account was mis-sold, as Lloyds had already offered to do what we wouldve asked 
it to do, had we decided  that it had been  mis-sold.  So he only looked  at whether the Platinum 
account had been mis-sold and he concluded that it had not been.
Ms Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we deal with complaints about 
packaged bank  accounts on our website  and Ive taken that into account when deciding  this case.
Platinum account
Ms B has said she was led to believe the Gold Service  and Platinum accounts  would help 
facilitate loan repayments. But neither Ms B, nor her representative, has explained  how 
exactly a fee-paying account  would help her repay a loan. But in any event, the two sales 
took place many years apart and I think its unlikely that Ms B was given the exact same 
(misleading) information  during  the sale of the Platinum account  as she says she was with 
the Gold Service account.
I can also see that Ms B took out loans with Lloyds on:
30 October  1989
11 August 1998
18 June 1999
24 November 2000
Ref: DRN906200025 September 2003
15 October  2007
Ms B didnt apply for a loan around  the time that she agreed to upgrade her account to the 
Platinum account  in 2004. And given the volume of loans Ms B had taken out with Lloyds 
before she upgraded her account, I think she was aware that she didnt have to have a 
Platinum account  to apply for, or repay, loans. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Ms B agreed to the Platinum 
account because  she was attracted to the benefits it provided, rather than because she 
thought it would somehow help repay her existing loan.
Lloyds recommended the account to Ms B. This meant that it had to check  if it was right for Ms B 
when it sold the account to her. So as well as considering  why Ms B says it was mis-sold,  Ive also 
considered if recommending the Platinum account to Ms B was appropriate in the circumstances.
At the time the Platinum  account cost £12 per month. Although based on the information  
Lloyds has provided,  it looks like Ms B continued to only pay the same  monthly  fee for the 
Gold Service account until June  2007, yet received the enhanced benefits  of the more 
expensive Platinum account. These  benefits  included worldwide travel insurance (with  the 
option of winter sports cover or family travel cover) and breakdown  cover, which, shortly  
after the sale, included  Relay and Home Start cover. It also included  mobile phone insurance 
shortly after the sale and card protection. And it provided a £250 interest free overdraft  as 
well as preferential interest  rates on balances overdrawn by more than that amount  
alongside a range of other benefits.
Theres evidence that Ms B booked a holiday shortly after the sale and that she drove  a 
vehicle at the time. And there is evidence (namely a list of overdraft charges, interest and 
account fees that shes paid over the years) that Ms B was regularly using  her overdraft at 
the time,  as well. So taking this all into account, I dont think  recommending the Platinum 
account based on her circumstances  in March 2004  was unreasonable,  particularly as she 
was not being charged  anything more than what she was already paying in monthly account 
fees, at least to start off with. 
As well as making sure the account  was right for Ms B, I have  also considered whether 
Lloyds gave Ms B all of the important information about the account. Unfortunately,  due to 
how long ago the sale took place  there  is only limited information available. But given that 
Ms B appeared to have  been aware of the monthly cost and the benefits (for example by 
engaging with some  of the account benefits,  despite  saying she already had some of them) 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think Ms B wouldve been put off from agreeing  to the 
Platinum account,  had she been given  more information about  it. 
I am aware  that Lloyds has essentially accepted that it shouldnt  have sold Ms B the Gold 
Service account. But just because that account was mis-sold doesnt necessarily mean  that 
the Platinum account mustve  also been mis-sold. This is because  I have to base my 
decision about the sale of the Platinum account on the specific circumstances  of that sale 
and Ms Bs circumstances  at that time i.e. in March  2004. 
So taking everything into account, on balance I dont  think that the Platinum account was 
mis-sold to Ms B. 
Ref: DRN90620003Overdraft charges
Ms B has said that she was unhappy  about  the overdraft charges that were applied  to her 
account. But they look to have been  charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. And Ms B has not referred to any specific charges  that she thinks were incorrectly  
applied. So I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds has done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly by charging  Ms B for the times  that she has used, or exceeded, her overdraft facility.  
putting things right - Gold Service  account
Lloyds has already agreed  to refund all of the Gold Service  account  fees that Ms B paid. 
Because of how long ago the Gold Service account was sold to Ms B, Lloyds does not know 
the exact date it was sold to her. So it has offered  to base its refund going back  to 1 October 
1994  as this is the mid-point between when the Gold Service  account was first launched  
(February 1990) and the earliest record it has of Ms B holding  the account  (which was a 
Gold Service loan taken  out on 18 June 1999). 
Lloyds has also agreed to pay 8% simple  interest  on those fees, calculated from the date 
she paid each fee until the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Having considered Lloyds offer, I think what it has offered to do to put matters  right is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and is in line with what our service wouldve 
recommended it do had we concluded that the Gold Service  account had been mis-sold.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think that the Platinum account was mis-sold. 
So Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything more  - than what  it has already offered to 
do with regards to the Gold Service account - to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062000