K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complained Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  wrongly settled a claim 
against her motor insurance policy. 
background
In July 2017 Mrs D let LV know about  an incident. She said shed been parked  on a slope 
with her handbrake on. When she returned  to her car the driver of another  vehicle said it had 
rolled into his vehicle. Mrs D said she didnt think the accident  was her fault but recognised  
that the vehicles were  touching. LV thought Mrs D had accepted fault for the accident  and 
settled the other drivers claim against  her policy. 
A while later when taking  out new insurance  as a named driver on her husbands policy     
Mrs D found out LV had settled the claim against her. So she complained.  LV accepted  it 
had wrongly taken Mrs Ds notification call as an acceptance of liability  and hadnt kept her 
updated about the claim. It offered her £100  compensation  for any distress  and 
inconvenience. 
Mrs D didnt think this was enough.  She still didnt  think  she was at fault for the accident so 
wanted the claim removed from her record. She said shed bought  a new car with free 
insurance but hadnt been able to make  use of it as she had a claim on record. She said this 
meant shed had to spend more on buying  insurance.  She also wanted LV to compensate  
her for the increase  in premium she experienced as a result  of having this claim on her 
policy. 
LV said it hadnt  handled  things as well as it could have done. But it didnt think it would have 
been able to prove Mrs D wasnt  to blame  for the accident if the case  went  to court.  It said 
Mrs D said shed been parked on a slope  and the other  car had been there when  she 
parked. It said the best possible outcome was likely to have been 50/50 which means she 
would still have a fault claim against her policy. But it thought  it was most likely Mrs D would 
be considered  wholly  at fault. 
Our investigator thought LV had made a reasonable decision  to settle the claim against      
Mrs D that was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He thought £100 was 
enough to compensate Mrs D for how LV had handled the claim as its mistake  hadnt 
ultimately changed the likely outcome. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident as thats the role of the courts. 
Instead we look to see that the insurer (in this case LV) has acted fairly and reasonably and 
made a decision  thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy  give LV the right to take 
over and defend  or settle any claims made  against her. This might mean LV makes a 
Ref: DRN93990212decision Mrs D disagrees with but the policy allows it to. Again we look to see that its done 
so fairly  and reasonably. 
LV said it wrongly  took Mrs Ds notification of the accident as an admission that she was to 
blame. However it thinks that even if it hadnt done that it would still have had to accept she 
was most likely at fault as her car was on a slope and the other vehicle was already  parked 
when she got there.  I appreciate Mrs D later said that she couldnt be sure the other vehicle 
was the same one when  she parked  the car and when  she returned. But for the reasons its 
given I think its reasonable for LV to say it didnt  think it would be able to prove the accident  
wasnt Mrs Ds fault if the case went to court. 
LV dealt with the claim under a reciprocal agreement with the other insurer.  And thought the 
costs were in line with what it would expect to see from an accident of that nature. Id agree  
that the costs  LV paid seem reasonable and in line with costs Ive seen from similar 
incidents. 
I understand Mrs D doesnt think the claim should  be recorded against her policy  but I think  
LV was ultimately  reasonable  in settling it. And even if LV had managed  to settle the claim 
on a 50/50 basis  this would still show as a fault claim against Mrs Ds policy. So Im not 
persuaded LV needs to remove  any record of the claim. 
I accept it must have been frustrating for Mrs D to find LV had settled a claim against  her 
that she didnt  think was her fault. Particularly when  she hadnt been  kept updated about  
what was happening.  LV has offered £100  compensation for not letting her know  and for 
wrongly thinking shed accepted blame. Given that I dont think its likely its mistake made 
any difference to the final outcome of the claim Im satisfied this is enough as its in line with 
other awards  our service makes for cases of similar  seriousness. I appreciate Mrs D said 
she wouldnt  have bought her new car if shed known about the claim because she wouldnt 
have got free insurance. But Im not going to ask LV to compensate her any further for that 
because its likely Mrs D would always have had to buy insurance  on any car she bought if 
she wasnt eligible for free insurance.
Taking everything into consideration Im satisfied LVs decision  was fair, reasonable and in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy. And I think  the £100  its offered to enough to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
my final decision
I understand Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company  Limited has offered  Mrs D £100 
compensation. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so my final 
decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mrs D £100 for her 
distress and inconvenience if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9399021