K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy (when Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester).
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy  covered Ms B 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Ms B didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that signing a separate direct debit form wasnt enough to clarify that 
the policy was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint for the following  reasons:
Ms B says it wasnt  made clear that the policy was optional and Ive carefully considered  
what shes said. I cant say exactly what was discussed during the meeting, so Ive looked at 
the available  paperwork. The PPI wasnt specifically described as optional but I think it was 
made reasonably clear  that the PPI was a separate product, because a separate application 
form and direct debit mandate had to be completed  and was signed by Ms B. And I havent 
seen anything in the paperwork to persuade me that Lloyds didnt present the policy  as 
optional. Overall, I think it more likely  than not that Lloyds made Ms B aware  that the PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it.
The bank advised Ms B to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
 Ms B was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.
 Ms B cant  remember how much sick pay she wouldve received from her employer,  
and for how long,  which  isnt surprising given  how long ago this all took place. The 
mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  and Ms Bs home was at 
risk if she didnt keep  up with the repayments. The PPI would have paid out for up to 
12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the 
PPI couldve been a useful benefit, in addition to Ms Bs existing arrangements.
 Ms B wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As she couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN92768482 I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Ms B before she 
agreed to purchase it. I dont  think she was told it would  cost £11 each month  until 
after the mortgage had started. For this reason  I have considered  whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected  Ms Bs decision to purchase the policy. 
She had chosen to take out the policy, knowing she would  have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
she would  have made a different decision if better information about  the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Ms B would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to her  overall, I think  she would still have  
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9276848