K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays)  applied fees to their accounts  
and sold shares to pay the fees,  without their authorisation.
background
Mr and Mrs V held Stockbrokers  accounts  with Barclays. In October  2013,  Barclays agreed 
to waive  inactivity fees on the accounts.  
In August  2017,  Barclays migrated Mr and Mrs Vs accounts to a new platform  called 
Barclays Smart Investor. The Stockbrokers platform  closed  in August 2017. Barclays  applied 
fees to Mr and Mrs Vs new accounts and say they did so in line with the new terms and 
conditions, which superseded any previous agreement.
Barclays notified Mr and Mrs V about  the fees due on the accounts in March and April 2018. 
Mr and Mrs V were  unhappy and cancelled their direct debit. Barclays then sold shares and 
used cash in the accounts to pay the fees. Barclays say they did so under the terms and 
conditions for the new accounts and they gave Mr and Mrs V notice about this.
Mr and Mrs V say that Barclays should not have applied fees to the account, given the 
agreement made in 2013. Mr and Mrs V say they didnt know or agree to their accounts 
being moved and renamed. Further they didnt agree  to fees being  applied and say the sale 
of shares was unauthorised. Mr and Mrs V are also happy with the way Barclays handled 
their complaint.
Barclays say that Mr and Mrs V were notified  about the launch of Smart Investor around 
December 2015.  Information about  the new platform and fee structure was sent to 
customers in November/December  2016. Before Mr and Mrs Vs accounts were  transferred 
they were also sent a letter and brochures  with the terms and conditions  for the new 
platform. Barclays say that a new charging  structure applied,  which  superseded any 
previous agreements and this was made  clear  in the information  provided to Mr and Mrs V. 
But Barclays  did accept they could have handled the complaint better. Theyve  apologised 
for this and offered £50.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He thought that there  had been an agreement to 
waive fees under the Stockbrokers accounts,  but things changed when Mr and Mrs Vs 
accounts moved to the Smart Investor platform.  Whilst our investigator thought Barclays  
could have been clearer about the charging structure, he thought Mr and Mrs V had received 
information about the new terms and conditions and these now applied.  Our investigator 
thought Barclays  did nothing wrong in selling shares to pay the fees as this was permitted 
under the terms  and conditions for the accounts.  He thought Barclays' offer of £50 was fair, 
for the poor customer  service in failing to return calls.
Mr and Mrs V disagree with the view and maintain  that they had a longstanding agreement 
with Barclays, under which no fees were payable. The matter has now come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96506682fees
Its not disputed  that Barclays  agreed  to waive non-activity fees under Mr and Mrs Vs 
Stockbrokers accounts. This offer was made at Barclays discretion and it appears to have  
been made in response to a complaint. Its not disputed  that fees were waived on the 
Stockbrokers accounts in line with that agreement up until the platforms  closure in 2017. 
The fees in dispute in this complaint relate to a new platform. Ive seen that Mr and Mrs V 
were sent information  about the new Smart Investor  Platform. This was sent before the 
accounts were migrated. 
The information provided by Barclays explained that Smart  Investor  was a new product and 
new terms and conditions  applied, along  with a new charging structure. I appreciate  that Mr 
and Mrs V made an assumption that no fees would be charged on the new platform.  But I 
havent seen anything from Barclays to say that this would be the case. The new terms and 
conditions replaced  the existing Stockbroker terms from the date the accounts were moved. 
Correspondence from Barclays said that Smart  Investor fees would be collected monthly.
Mr and Mrs V also had the option  to transfer their accounts out to a new provider for free. 
They chose not to move to a new provider and so moved to the new platform under new 
terms and conditions. As our investigator has explained, the new charging structure brought 
in a single, standard fee, which started at a minimum of £4 each month.
On balance, I consider  that Barclays did provide clear and adequate information about  the 
new fees. I think it is more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs V were aware that the platform  
was changing
sale of shares and use of cash to pay fees
Mr and Mrs V say they didnt authorise  the sale of any shares  or use of cash  from their 
accounts. Ive seen that Barclays wrote  to Mr and Mrs V explaining that fees were due. Mr 
and Mrs V complained  about the fees and then cancelled the direct debit. As the fees 
remained payable and outstanding, shares were sold and cash from the account was used 
to pay them.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs V say they didnt give explicit authority for these steps to be 
taken. But under the terms and conditions for the Smart Investor  accounts,  Barclays were 
entitled to take these  steps to pay the fees.  The terms say:
 
14.12 . . . If you do not pay us as set out in the terms of your specific  account  we may use 
the cash or sell Assets  within  your Account to meet the unpaid charges, or take other steps 
as set out in the terms of the your Account, provided  that we have given you notice. This 
does not restrict our ability to take legal action or other action to recover the debts caused by 
the non-payment of charges due to us by you.
Barclays explained the fees structure  again when  Mr and Mrs V complained in March 2018.  
And Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs V that I have seen copies of the letters sent by Barclays 
in which  they gave notice about  selling some investments to clear  the fees balance.  So 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs V understood that Barclays  
were requesting payment of the fees on the new platform. Mr and Mrs V didnt pay the fees 
and cancelled their direct debit. In line with the terms and conditions, Barclays then sent 
Ref: DRN96506683notice of the sale of the shares  to Mr and Ms V. A contract note was sent in May after the 
shares had been  sold.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs V feel strongly  that Barclays shouldnt have taken any steps  
in respect of payment of the fees.  But given the terms and conditions  for the new platform, I 
cant fairly say that Barclays  have  done  anything wrong here.
customer service
Mr and Mrs V say that Barclays didnt return calls when they raised their concerns. I agree 
that Barclays could  have handled things  better. I consider that it was fair and reasonable to 
apologise and to offer £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused.  So 
I wont be asking Barclays to do anything  more.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint, Mr and Mrs V, but for the reasons given above, I am not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9650668