K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about the compensation  offered  for a mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a credit card from Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One).
background 
In June 2002 Mr N took out a PPI policy associated with his credit card ending 3397. In 2018 
Mr N complained to Capital One that the PPI had been mis-sold. Capital One agreed to 
settle his complaint and in October 2018  wrote to Mr N offering compensation of £144.13.
Mr N wasnt happy with the amount of compensation offered and also felt he should  get 
some additional  compensation for the trouble and upset cased because of the way Capital 
One had handled his complaint. So he brought his complaint to this service. 
There was then some confusion as Capital One told Mr N to disregard the offer letter it had 
sent in October  as it was doing a recalculation.  In December 2018 Capital One then wrote to 
Mr N to say there was no PPI on the credit card ending  3397 but there  was PPI on another 
credit card hed had and the compensation for this other credit  card was £144.72. 
Capital One has since said this letter in December was wrong  and the offer of £144.72 was 
for card 3397 and Mr Ns other card had no PPI associated with it.
Our adjudicator said that the offer of compensation for card 3397 had been  worked  out as 
we would expect,  so it was fair. As Mr N had been in a bankruptcy  the adjudicator also said it 
was fair for Capital  One to pay the compensation to the Official Receiver (OR) who is a party  
to the complaint. Also our adjudicator said Capital One should pay additional compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused by the way Capital One had dealt with the complaint and 
the errors  it had made.
Capital One agreed  it would  pay £150.00 to compensate Mr N for any trouble and upset he 
had been caused. Mr N originally indicated he agreed to accept this £150.00.  There  was 
some delay in the payment being  made  but after it had been paid to him he said that this 
was not the amount he had been  seeking and he should be paid more. So he no longer 
accepted this was a fair amount.
The complaint has now been referred  to me to review and issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only looking at the complaint and compensation offered for credit card 
ending 3397. As Capital  One agreed  to settle this complaint about  mis-sold PPI with this 
card Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only considering the calculation 
and offer of compensation that has been  made.
There are two parts to this complaint, the offer of the compensation for the mis-sold PPI and 
how Capital One has dealt with Mr Ns complaint about this and compensation related to 
this.
Ref: DRN96120882is the amount  of compensation to settle the complaint fair?
When a business  settles a complaint about  mis-sold  PPI it is expected to put a consumer, as 
far as possible, in the position they would have  been in if the policy hadnt been sold.  This 
means refunding  the premiums paid for the PPI, plus any interest  or charges  caused by it 
that the consumer  has paid.  Also, if the consumer has been  out of pocket for these PPI costs 
the business needs to pay some compensatory interest. 
In this case Capital  One has all the statements and data for the account and has worked  out 
the cost of the PPI. The total premiums  paid was £75.89 and the interest  charged  on those 
premiums because they were added  to the card, was £17.29. Capital One then worked out 
compensatory interest  on these amounts for the time Mr N was out of pocket and this comes 
to £64.68 to December 2018. From this compensatory interest basic rate income tax of 
£12.93 has been deducted as required by HM Revenue and Customs.
Overall I think  what Capital  One has worked out as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is 
fair. The reason  the amount of compensation overall  went up a little between  the offer in 
October 2018 and December  2018, was the result of the compensatory interest being 
updated as Mr N had been out of pocket for longer.
In November 2004 the PPI was cancelled and in 2005 Mr N defaulted  on his payments 
owing just over £800.00  to Capital One.  Mr N however went into bankruptcy  so this debt 
became part of the bankruptcy and the OR is a party to this complaint  as a result. 
In its offer letter to Mr N, Capital One referred to the fact Mr N had been in some  insolvency 
proceedings and it was intending to pay the compensation  to the OR. In all the 
circumstances of this complaint I think that its fair the compensation for the mis-sale is paid 
to the OR.
So Mr N will not receive the compensation directly.
award  for  trouble and upset.
Capital One made a number of mistakes when  dealing  with this complaint, for example 
confusing the two credit card accounts  Mr N had and making an offer on card 3397,  then 
later writing  to say it had no PPI. And then realising its error and making  a new offer as the 
PPI was associated  with card ending 3397.  This was confusing and delayed  the process  to 
bring the complaint to an end.
Capital One agreed  to pay £150.00  for the trouble and upset caused  by its complaints 
handling and errors in this case.  When Mr N initially said he would accept it, the payment of 
£150.00 was made.  It is only after payment Mr N raised any points about this again.
The OR, who has to accept this Final Decision, has indicated he cannot give an acceptance 
for any amounts  that arose from activity after the bankruptcy.  And that applies to any 
compensation for the trouble and upset  here.
However I think, having looked at the circumstances around how Capital One dealt with the 
complaint and the errors it made, £150.00  was a fair amount of compensation to be paid and 
I would not award  any more than this. 
Ref: DRN96120883As this payment has already  been  made to Mr N, on the basis of his acceptance,  and I am 
making no additional award  for trouble and upset, this part of his complaint  is in effect 
settled. 
Therefore there is nothing  for the OR to accept in relation to this trouble and upset 
compensation. The only remaining issue is the amount  of compensation to refund the costs 
of the PPI and the compensatory interest. And I think the offer made  by Capital One is fair, 
subject to the compensatory interest being  updated to the date of final payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I think the offer Capital One (Europe) plc has made to 
settle Mr Ns complaint about  mis-sold  PPI with his credit card is fair. Subject to updating the 
compensatory interest  if this payment has not yet been made to the OR, Im not telling 
Capital One (Europe) plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Official 
Receiver on behalf of Mr N to accept  or reject  my decision before 12 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612088