K820x#14complaint
In 1995, Mrs A took out a loan with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).  At the same time, Lloyds sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs A thinks that Lloyds mis-sold this policy 
to her and wants it to refund the premium she paid for it, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Lloyds mis-sold PPI to Mrs A and didnt recommend that it should give her any money  
back. Mrs A disagreed  with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mrs As case.  Ive looked into everything that Mrs A and Lloyds have told us or 
sent us about  her complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Lloyds and Mrs A have agreed  that Lloyds arranged  the loan and sold PPI to Mrs A during a 
meeting at one of its branches. Mrs A has told us that as she bought the policy a long time 
ago, she has no speci fic recol lection  of the exact events at the time of applic ation and . 
(that she). may indeed have opted  for PPI. But shes gone on to say that Lloyds didnt 
explain the policys terms and conditions to her. Shes said that she now believes she had no 
need for the policy.  Shes told us that it had no foreseeable benefit for her as she had some 
savings she could have  used to pay off the loan if needed and that her partner would  also 
have helped her. 
Lloyds has told us that it recommended PPI to Mrs A and advised her to take it. Mrs A has 
told us that she cant  remember Lloyds making such a recommendation. But if Lloyds did 
recommend PPI, it would  have had to check that the policy it sold to Mrs A was right for her, 
which included checking that Mrs A had a potential need for the cover the policy  provided, 
and tell her about  it clearly and fairly  so she could decide if she wanted it. So in fairness to 
Mrs A, Ive looked into her complaint on the basis that Lloyds did recommend PPI to her.
Neither side has been able to send  us any of the original personal paperwork from the 
meeting. Given how much  time has passed,  I dont find this surprising. But Lloyds  has sent 
us an example credit agreement which it says is similar to those it was using to arrange  
loans in 1995. I think this paperwork shows that Lloyds  probably did give Mrs A the choice to 
apply for the loan with or without PPI, and that Mrs A has remembered this correctly. 
As there are no records from the meeting, I cant tell what  questions, if any, Lloyds asked 
Mrs A about  her situation and potential need for insurance before it recommended  the policy 
to her. So Ive looked at the policys features  and considered what  I know about  Mrs As 
circumstances at the time, to see if it was reasonable  for Lloyds  to make its 
recommendation. 
The policy had eligibility rules, which Mrs A met, and she doesnt seem to have been caught 
out by any of its main  exclusions  and limitations. 
Ref: DRN96802772Mrs A paid for the policy  by taking an extra loan on which  she paid interest.  Lloyds has 
accepted that it may not have told Mrs A about  the full cost of the policy and the amount  of 
extra interest she would have to pay as clearly  as it should have done. But in Mrs As case 
the amount of extra interest was small and she seems to have been able to afford the 
premiums, so I dont think she would have changed her mind about taking the policy  even if 
Lloyds had explained its cost properly. 
If Mrs A had repaid the main loan and cancelled the policy  early,  she probably wouldnt have 
received a proportionate  refund on the cost of the policy. But, I understand that Mrs A 
wanted the loan to help her buy a car, and I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that she 
thought she was likely to repay it early. So I dont think the policys likely cancellation terms 
would have affected her. 
I appreciate Mrs As comments that she could have used her savings to make  her loan 
repayments if needed and could also have  relied on her partners income.  But she may well 
wanted her savings for other things and the policy could have helped  her to keep them set 
aside for these other uses. Similarly, Mrs A and her husband may have found it more  difficult  
to manage their finances if Mrs A lost her income  and I think  the policy could have made it 
easier for them to rely on one income rather than two. So it seems  to me that Mrs A had a 
potential need  for PPI and it could have been useful for her. I think  it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend  the policy to her. 
I accept that its quite possible that Lloyds  didnt explain everything about  the policy to Mrs A 
as well as it should  have done.  But Im satisfied that Mrs A was eligible  for the policy, that it 
was suitable for her, that she could afford it, and that she had a potential need for cover; I 
think she would still have  chosen to buy the policy even if Lloyds had explained everything 
properly. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold  PPI to Mrs A. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Lloyds Bank 
PLC. Im not going to tell it to give her any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9680277