K820x#14complaint
Ms R and Mr R complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance plc gave poor service under a 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
Ms and Mr R were  living in an old terraced house with a slate roof. They  had a home 
buildings insurance  policy under  which another insurer  was responsible for dealing with 
claims. 
They also had a home emergency  policy under which  RSA was responsible for dealing with 
claims. Where I refer to RSA, I include claims-handlers, workers and others for whose 
actions I hold RSA responsible.
Under the rules  by which the Financial Ombudsman  Service is bound, we can only deal with 
a complaint about one insurer at a time. Im dealing with a complaint about RSA.
On Good Friday Ms R called RSA for help with a leaking roof. She complained  that RSA 
didnt fix the roof until after the long Easter  weekend - and as a result  of the delay there  was 
further damage to the bedroom  ceiling  below.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
RSA was responsible  for the damage.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
She paid for 365 days of cover which includes public holidays.  
RSAs workers took photos of the ceiling on their first visit.
They said they would be attending again  on the next dry day.
Easter Monday  was a dry day and they shouldve fixed the leak.
But RSAs workers didnt attend - stating that theyd  been stuck in traffic. That was 
not her problem.
It rained again  on the Tuesday and RSA didnt attend until the Wednesday  which  is 
why the damage  to the ceiling became worse. 
RSA admitted liability and paid £50.00 compensation which wont cover  the cost of 
the ceiling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98484972The home emergency policy included cover for roof damage caused by bad weather. But the 
policy was subject to a limit for each emergency  of £300.00 including call-out fee, labour and 
materials. The policy said RSA would deal with any claim in the shortest possible time. 
But it also said that RSA would send a tradesman provided that it wasnt  prevented  from 
doing so by bad weather or other  circumstances making  provision of the service  impractical.  
So I dont  think the policy promised emergency  roof repairs within a set time limit.
From what  Ms R has said, there  had been stormy weather in late February and early March 
2018. 
It was 30 March 2018 when Ms R called RSA for help.  That was the public holiday of Good  
Friday. Ms R has said that the roof was already leaking and there  was a drip from the ceiling. 
No doubt thats why Ms R called for help.
RSA sent some workers the next day. But they decided not to go up on the roof because  of 
the weather conditions. The roof continued to leak. According to her emailed complaint of 
late May, the workers said they would  come back on the next dry day. And Ms R said that 
was on Easter  Sunday  when they didnt come.
More recently, Ms R has said they were due to come  on Easter Monday. She has added  
some detail about them being  stuck  in traffic  which wasnt mentioned  in her email in May.
In any event I accept that they didnt come back and fix the roof until the Wednesday.
Ive seen photographs taken by the workers on both visits. But they are only of the roof  not 
the ceiling.
From its final response and another letter in June,  I see that RSA acknowledged  a delay and 
paid £50.00 into Ms Rs bank  account. It also said that it understood that the home buildings 
insurer had turned down her claim.
Ive seen Ms Rs recent photographs of the ceiling. They show a textured finish with some 
bubbling consistent with water damage.  They  also show a separate  area of water staining.
But I dont think Ms R has shown what damage happened when.
In any event I dont  find RSAs response  time unreasonable in all the circumstances. I dont  
find that RSA fell below a reasonable level of service.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to order RSA to pay Ms R and Mr R 
compensation under the home emergency insurance.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do anything more in response  to Ms and Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Ref: DRN98484973Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9848497