K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services (UK) Limited applied unfair end of 
contract charges  when  she returned  her vehicle.  She wants  the charges to be cancelled.
background
Ms C tells us that she returned the vehicle  at the end of the contract  period.  And that at the 
time the only damage which  had been  identified was a small  dent to a front door panel.  She 
said that this didnt fall outside the return standards provided by MBFS. So she doesnt  think 
there should be any charges.
MBFS told us that Ms C had taken  out the finance agreement for the vehicle in November  
2016. It said that when the vehicle had been returned, in January 2019, various items of 
damage had been  identified. After  a review it said it had been  decided that Ms C should  only 
be held responsible for two items.  These  were a dent to a door and gouge  damage to an 
alloy wheel. MBFS said it had removed  other  charges  and reduced  the invoice from £788 to 
£396. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said hed seen  the 
vehicle inspection report and felt this showed  the relevant damage.  He said this fell outside 
the fair wear and tear guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). And that it was also outside  the Vehicle Return Standards included in 
the agreement. As such he felt the charges  had been properly applied. And he wouldnt be 
asking MBFS to remove them.
Ms C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms C feels that the end of contract  charges  which were applied  in respect of 
damage to her vehicle  were unfair.  And I can understand her concern at being faced with the 
additional expense  if she hadnt been expecting the charges.
Ms Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. The agreement includes terms and conditions 
about the condition of the vehicle at the time it is returned. And in summary this requires  it to 
comply with the Vehicle Return Standards  which are set out in the agreement. The most 
relevant clauses state:
Acceptable:
 Minor body dents,  typically those caused by door to door: contact, provided that
a)they are less than 13mm (1/2")  in diameter - maximum 1 dent per panel  to maximum 
of 2 dents per vehicle  for vehicles up to 2 years old and 4 dents for vehicles over 2 
years;
Ref: DRN99355942 Light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/touch 
up.
Ive also referred to the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. Ms C acquired a used  vehicle 
with almost 6,000 miles on the odometer.  So in reaching my decision Ive also taken this into 
account. It wouldnt be fair to apply  the same standards for wear and tear to a vehicle that 
had been previously used at the time of supply as would apply to a new vehicle.
Where facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions  on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive viewed a copy of Ms Cs original  complaint  letter in which she refers  to there being a 
small dent to the door panel. And Ive looked  at the vehicle inspection  report  and seen the 
photographs taken  at the time of the inspection. 
In terms of the damage originally identified by the inspection I consider  that the photographs 
support those findings. But as MBFS has removed some charges which  were  disputed by 
Ms C, I dont need to deal with these items. All Id say is that the reason which MBFS gave 
for removing  the charges wasnt related to the correct identification of the damage. Rather it 
wasnt satisfied the damage had occurred  when the vehicle was in Ms Cs possession.  I can 
infer from this that MBFS undertook a fair and thorough review before reaching  its 
conclusions. 
In her original complaint  Ms C accepted there  was a dent on one of the door panels and 
thats one of the charges  which MBFS has said should continue to apply. On a balance of 
probabilities I find this is the same damage which is identified by the report  and for which 
there is photographic  information. This damage  falls outside the relevant Vehicle Return 
Standards and in my opinion is properly chargeable. Similarly the damage to the alloy wheel  
is evidenced in the photographs and is more likely than not to have occurred  during  the three 
year period  when Ms C was using the vehicle.
Im aware Ms C will be disappointed by my findings.  But I think MBFS has dealt fairly with 
her complaint. It removed  charges where it wasnt satisfied it was fair to apply them. Im 
satisfied the remaining charges are justified. And in particular Ive seen no information that 
confirms that the dent could be polished out. The inspection report  refers to it needing to be 
replaced. Bearing in mind  the extent of the damage thats a fair conclusion.
In summary,  I find that the charges which MBFS applied  are in line with the terms and 
conditions set out in the financial agreement.  Accordingly, I shant  be asking MBFS to 
remove them. And Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN99355943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935594