K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that Motability Operations Limited  refused  to let him reject  a faulty car.
Background
In December 2016 Mr E acquired car funded  by a finance agreement  with Mobility.  He paid 
an advance of £2,999 and £5,540 for optional extras.  Mr E says he encountered  problems 
with the car shortly  after taking delivery, but Motability says he first contacted it in July 2018.
Its records show that after July 2018 it made numerous unsuccessful attempts to speak  with 
him. On a long distance trip a warning light came on indicating low tyre pressure,  but the 
metal caps  had fused and he couldnt  remove them. He also says the car cut out. The RAC 
was called but was unable to identify any fault and said the tyre caps needed to be fixed  by 
an approved garage.
Mobility arranged for the car to be taken back to a dealer close to Mr Es home  and he was 
provided with a hire car. He says the boot wasnt big enough and he had to stay away from 
home for two days and missed a hospital  appointment.
The car was repaired  and Mr E told Motability he was happy with the repairs but he wasnt  
happy with the car. He didnt trust it and asked for a refund  for the optional  extras  he had 
bought. He thought  some  of the faults were  still not fixed and an independent  report  was 
carried out. Further repairs  were  recommended  and the car was taken to the dealer.  It is noted  
that the report makes  no comment  on whether the faults were  present at the point of sale. 
Mobility tried contacting  Mr E after the car had been  repaired again and he said that he had made 
little use of it, but it appeared to be fine, but he was concerned about taking it on a long journey.
Motability made two offers to Mr E, both gestures of goodwill. The first was a pro-rata refund 
of the optional extras until December 2018 which would equate to a total of £3,693.  This was 
provided he kept the car.
The second  offer was to allow him to terminate the contract early.  Motability would  waive the 
£250 cancellation fee, honour the pro rata refund of £3,693 and refund the advance  payment 
in full. He would be paid £6,692 if he chose to end the agreement.
Mr E rejected these  offers and brought his complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said Motability had been  
informed about  Mr Es concerns some 19 months  after the sale and it had acted properly in 
seeking to support Mr E. He thought the dealership  could have handled  the repairs better, 
but he couldnt hold Mobility responsible for that. Mr E didnt agree and said he had informed 
Motability much earlier about the problems, but he was unable  to provide supporting 
evidence. He said that he was disabled and he relied on Motability which  was supposed  to 
offer worry free motoring. He suggested that Motability should pay him £9,000.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN92859382The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. Motability is also the supplier of the 
goods under  this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint  about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
While I appreciate Mr E has worries about  the reliability of the car I dont consider I can 
uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
I note he says he contacted Motability  early on, but having looked at its contact records I can 
see no evidence for that. It may be that he was in touch with the dealer. In any event I am 
satisfied that Motability was unaware of the issues he faced until some  19 months after the 
sale of the car. Once it was aware  it took all reasonable steps to assist him. It has made  
numerous unsuccessful  attempts to contact him and provide support. I appreciate the hire 
car didnt  have a large enough boot,  but when that happened a more suitable means of 
transport was organised.  
I have seen no evidence  that the car was faulty  at the point  of sale and as such  I can see no 
basis for allowing  Mr E to reject it. The car has been repaired and while  it is regrettable  the dealer 
needed two attempts I dont believe that is sufficient to allow  me to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
I appreciate he has lost faith in the car, but I see that he was able to cover some  29,000  
miles in it as of late March 2019. That suggests he has made significant use of it. Motability 
has made what I consider  to be two very fair offers to Mr E and it is open to him to accept 
either of these if he wishes. I dont believe it need do any more  and I cannot  recommend that 
it pays him £9,000  as he has suggested.
My final decision
Motability Operations Limited has already made two offers to settle the complaint and I think 
these offers  are fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Motability should either 
make a pro-rata refund of the optional extras until December 2018 which would equate  to a 
total of £3,693, if Mr E wishes to keep the car. If Mr E wishes  to terminate the contract early  
Motability should waive the £250  cancellation  fee, honour the pro rata refund of £3,693 and 
refund the advance  payment in full. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285938