K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc rejected a payment into his account from a business  
partner.
background 
Mr N says his business  partner sent about  £400 to his account that he didnt receive. He 
says that has caused  him problems in running  his business. He also says that he was told 
the problem was caused by an incorrect account number but his partner had used the same  
details to successfully  transfer money  to him.
Santander doesnt accept making  a mistake and says incorrect account details were  used  
and that is why the payment was sent back.  It says Mr Ns business partner should ask his 
bank where the money is as it no longer has it.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it as Santander now accepts it 
may have  rejected the payment as it failed  its internal processes. The investigator 
recommended Santander  pay Mr N £50 for the misleading information which  its agreed  to 
do.
Mr N doesnt accept  that view and questions if the £400 was ever received by Santander. He 
would like an explanation  why other  payments were  accepted and believes Santander acted  
fraudulently. Mr N would like the £400  paid to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I appreciate Mr Ns concerns here that his business  partner no doubt told him he had sent 
him the money  but Santander told him it didnt  have it. I also appreciate Mr Ns frustration in 
being told that the account details were  incorrect  but other payments using the same  number 
did reach his account. But Im satisfied that Santander has explained what  took place  that 
it rejected the payment due to internal reasons  and sent the money  back. I think a bank or 
building society is entitled to use its commercial judgement on such  matters such  as 
accepting payments into customers accounts and thats not something I can fairly interfere 
in.
In those circumstances I agree with the investigator  that Santander should pay Mr N 
compensation for the misleading information  he received and I think it should  pay the £50 
recommended. I think such an award fairly reflects what took place and is fair and 
reasonable and takes into account  that Mr N didnt suffer any financial loss as the money 
didnt actually reach his account.
Im satisfied on balance  that the money was returned to the sender and it will be for Mr Ns 
business partner  to ask his bank  where the money  is or check  that its not been  received 
back into his account. For that reason I cant fairly order Santander  to pay Mr N the £400 as I 
think its been sent back.
Ref: DRN96343382Overall I dont think Santander handled  Mr Ns complaint as it should  but I think  its fairly 
agreed to pay an appropriate  amount of compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr N £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9634338