K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt reduce its annual 
management charges  (AMCs) after it stopped paying any trail commission  to their former 
advisor.
background
Aviva rejected their complaint, saying  it was not required to do this.
An investigator at this service agreed with its interpretation of the terms and conditions  
covering their policies.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed, and said:
Aviva  are merely  retaining monies they would otherwise  have to pay to an appointed 
financial advisor, for their own benefit, which is not compatible  with Treating 
Customers Fairly as required by the Financial Conduct Authority
The solution would be to pay the monies  direct to them, allocate additional units to 
the policies or reduce the AMC
Aviva  run a number of nearly identical funds holding the same assets - the different 
unit prices reflect the start date of the fund class and the AMC. They will also run an 
identical fund with a lower AMC, and a switch  to that would achieve a fair rebate
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
However, I do fully understand Mr and Mrs S surprise  and disappointment at whats  
happened. I have dealt  with similar complaints from other people  who are equally  bemused 
and cannot understand why a business is entitled  to levy the same management charge 
after it stopped  paying out trail commission.
On the face of it, this does seem wrong.  But this is a misunderstanding, albeit an entirely 
understandable one, as to how businesses set their AMCs. This is designed to cover  a 
range of things,  including management costs, and is shown as a standard  charge on the 
policy, and automatically  deducted from the clients investment sum  at the outset and 
yearly. 
In order to incentivise financial  advisors to recommend their policies many businesses offer 
commission, both via a one-off  payment  and ongoing annual payments, and these incentive 
payments are paid for out of the business AMC. If someone takes  out the same policy 
without advice (i.e. no-one receiving commission) the same AMC is deducted from their 
funds value as a client whose advisor  receives  ongoing commission.
So if a business  like Aviva  is instructed to stop paying trail commission to an advisor/former 
advisor it simply retains the full AMC. The policyholder is not entitled  to either receive  this 
commission or enjoy a reduction in their AMC.
Ref: DRN97082982Given this, I have no doubt that Aviva is entitled to act in the way it has done. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9708298