K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC has treated her unfairly, because  it will not 
allow her attorneys under a Lasting  Power of Attorney (LPA)  debit cards for her bank 
account.
Mrs S has a representative, who has brought this complaint  on her behalf. I will refer to her 
representative in this decision as C. 
background
Mrs S has an LPA registered with the Office of the Public Guardian.  This gives  her attorneys 
the power to deal with her finances  on her behalf. It also contains  a restriction  regarding  
transactions over £10,000. In summary, both attorneys must authorise transactions over this 
amount.
Mrs S has an account with Lloyds. Lloyds  is aware of the LPA and its restrictions.  It 
explained that it would be unable to issue debit cards (or cheque  books) to the attorneys, 
because it couldnt  put financial limits on transactions  carried out this way. Accordingly,  it 
would mean  a breach of the terms of the LPA could potentially take place. Instead, it said the 
attorneys could have  cash cards, where  a limit could  be imposed.
Mrs S has said that if Lloyds can impose  limits on cash  cards,  she doesnt see why the same  
cant be applied to debit  cards and the approval of cheques. She explained  that she included 
the £10,000 restriction as a way of safeguarding herself against  the potential  for financial 
abuse. Lloyds  had suggested the restriction could be removed, but Mrs S has noted  this 
would require a new LPA, and reduce her level of protection.
Mrs S feels  this is unfair, and a breach of the Equality Act 2010. She feels  that Lloyds isnt 
assisting in safeguarding her interests,  despite  all of the technology available to it. She 
thinks its failing to make reasonable adjustments. She considers that its not for Lloyds to 
directly police the requirements of the LPA. Rather,  its down  to the attorneys not to breach 
them. She believes that Lloyds systems are unable to adapt to meet  the requirements.
Lloyds disagrees.  It is aware of the limitations  of the LPA, and says that if it allows 
transactions to be completed that breach it, it may be liable. Further, it must  safeguard  its 
customer, Mrs S. It does not currently have the facility to impose limits on transactions  as 
Mrs S has requested. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. But she didnt think  Lloyds had 
behaved unfairly.
She considered that because of the restrictions contained in the LPA, it isnt possible for 
Lloyds to provide  the attorneys with debit cards. She noted it had offered cash  cards  as an 
alternative.
She noted Cs belief  that Lloyds is failing to make reasonable adjustments, and that its not 
Lloyds role to police whether the attorneys abide  by the terms of the LPA. But she was 
satisfied that Lloyds has a duty to safeguard Mrs Ss accounts, in line with the LPA, and that 
this is what it is doing.  She felt it had offered a reasonable alternative.
Our investigator also considered the points  raised by C about the Equality Act. Hed 
explained that he felt, as a matter of public policy, Lloyds approach is wrong  and 
Ref: DRN96329102discriminatory. The attorneys want a debit card so they can use the account  as Mrs S 
previously could, so reasonable adjustments should be made. But our investigator didnt 
think the Equality  Act applied to this situation, as the 'reasonable adjustment'
being asked for is for the attorneys and not Mrs S, who has the disability. She also noted 
that we look at complaints on a case-by-case basis.
C, on behalf of Mr S, disagreed. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should  explain  my role. It is not for me to decide whether or not Mrs S has been 
discriminated against. This is the role of a court. However, I am required to take into account  
the law, and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Here, C, on 
behalf of Mrs S, considers that the Equality Act 2010  applies.  The Act sets out protected 
characteristics, including  disability. It says:
A person (P) has a disability if 
(a) P has a physical or mental impairment,  and
(b) the impairment has a substantial  and long-term  adverse  effect on P's ability to carry out
normal day-to-day activities.
I accept, for the purposes of this complaint,  that Mrs S is likely to be considered a disabled
person. So, I need to think  about whether what Lloyds has done discriminates against Mrs S
because of something connected to her disability.
Under section 15 of the Act, discrimination arising from disability occurs where both:
 A treats  B unfavourably  because of something  arising in consequence  of Bs disability,
and
 A cannot show that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving  a legitimate
aim.
First, Im not convinced the Equality Act applies to this situation.  This is because the 
adjustment being asked for is for the attorneys.
However, I dont need to make a finding on this, because Im satisfied that the fair outcome 
is the same, regardless of whether  or not the Act applies.
If the Act does apply  (and,  as explained,  Im not persuaded it does in this scenario), then 
Lloyds would need to demonstrate that what its doing is a proportionate means of achieving  
a legitimate aim. Here, Im satisfied  it is. I consider it to be entirely  legitimate to ensure the 
restrictions of the LPA are adhered  to. Mrs S stipulated these, and Lloyds has a duty  
regardless of the duties the attorneys themselves have  to safeguard  Mrs S/her  account.  
And given  it cannot  currently  impose a limit on debit  card transactions,  I think its 
proportionate to have offered the alternatives  that it has.
The same arguments  hold if the Equality Act does not apply. I still need to consider whether 
what Lloyds is doing is fair. And Im satisfied it is, for the same reasons.  Ultimately, Mrs S 
has put certain restrictions in the LPA.  So although  the attorneys are stepping into her 
Ref: DRN96329103shoes, this  crucially  is only as far as the LPA allows.  Were Lloyds to give the attorneys  
debit cards (and cheque  books), this would leave  the possibly there for the monetary limit to 
be exceeded. I accept  it may well not be ideal that the system doesnt  allow  for limits to be 
put on debit card transactions (and indeed cheques).  But, while this remains  the case, it has 
offered alternatives. Although these may not be as convenient for the attorneys,  I consider 
them reasonable given the overarching need to adhere to the LPA Mrs S put in place, and 
for Lloyds  to protect  her as its customer.  
Accordingly, I am satisfied  that Lloyds has behaved  fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C, on behalf of 
Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9632910