K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with what  HFC Bank  Limited  (HFC) has offered  to put things right following 
his complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr R bought PPI alongside  a credit  card. Mr R thinks the policy  was mis-sold.  HFC 
investigated the complaint. It didnt agree the policy was mis-sold  but offered  to pay back  
some of the cost of the policy: HFC hadnt  explained  the commission  it got from the policy, 
so it offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
the premium.
But Mr R didnt think hed have bought the policy,  so referred  the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  it was mis-sold. So HFC offered to put 
Mr R in the position hed be in if he hadnt  bought the policy  at all.
But when HFC worked out what it needed to pay Mr R, it now said it owed  him nothing.  HFC 
said Mr R claimed  on the policy, and so it took off the amount it said he got when  he claimed 
from what hed paid.
Mr R said hes never claimed on the policy, and so wants the full cost of the PPI refunded  to 
him. Our adjudicator thought that what HFC had done was fair. As Mr R didnt agree, the 
complaint was referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 25 February 2019. I said Id considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  
I agreed that HFC shouldnt have sold Mr R the PPI. So I looked at what HFC needed to do 
to put things right.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  
bought the policy. Where  the consumer has claimed on the policy, Id normally say it was fair 
for the business  to take the value of that claim off any compensation.
In Mr Rs case, HFC said Mr R claimed  on the policy  and so wanted to take the amount Mr 
R claimed off the amount it needs to pay him. Mr R says he never  claimed on the policy.  So I 
looked at what  was most likely to have happened, based on the information Id seen.
I said that HFC had sent us records showing the payments  and charges to Mr Rs account  
from November 1999 onwards.  I saw that, starting in 2000,  2003 and 2005, there were 
payments to the account described  as PPI CLAIM PAYMENT. These  payments  added  to 
£12,293.01.
Mr R said he didnt make  these claims. But I said that if he hadnt  claimed on the policy,  I 
wouldnt expect to see these claim payments in HFCs records.  I also explained that Id also 
have expected to see Mr R making  his normal monthly payments during  these periods  and 
I saw that these in fact stopped during the period of the PPI claim payments. So I was 
satisfied that Mr R claimed on the policy.
Ref: DRN98284832If Mr R hadnt  bought the PPI, he wouldnt have been able to make these claims. So I 
thought it was fair for HFC to take the value of these  claims off the compensation it has to 
pay for mis-selling PPI. HFC said Mr R claimed  £12,293.01. But he paid an extra £4,728.20 
because of the PPI and interest, plus £80 in fees. As Mr R had claimed  far more from the 
policy than HFC had charged  him in premiums and interest, I didnt think HFC needed to pay 
him more.
I also looked at whether  HFC needed to pay Mr R more because of the commission  it got. I 
explained that the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explained how 
businesses should  approach complaints about  the sale of PPI. These  say that the business 
should first look at whether the policy was mis-sold,  and then whether the consumer would 
still have bought the policy.
If the business thought the consumer  would still have bought the policy, it then has to look at 
whether the commission  and profit  share it got made  its relationship with the consumer 
unfair.
But in Mr Rs case, I said that HFC had now agreed Mr R shouldnt have bought the policy at 
all. So the rules said HFC wouldnt  have to look at the commission it got  and I saw no 
reason in Mr Rs case to depart from these rules.  This means I didnt think HFC needed to 
give him anything  further  and if it had realised this to begin with it wouldnt have paid Mr R 
anything.
I said Id consider any further information  anyone sent me before 25 March  2019. HFC says 
it has nothing further to add. Mr R has replied to say he disagrees with my provisional 
findings, and has given reasons. So Ive looked at Mr Rs complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen,  I reach the same  conclusion  as my provisional decision for the 
same reasons.
Mr R insists that he never claimed  on the policy  he says he was never  unemployed or off 
work sick before 2012. And he questions the information I mentioned in my provisional 
decision.
Where Mr R and HFC disagree about what happened, I have to decide  whats  most likely  
based on the information available. Because of the time that has passed, the insurer  says it 
no longer has records  of the claim.  But I dont think thats surprising:  the latest claim was in 
2005, and I wouldnt  expect the insurer to keep records longer than it needed them.
HFC has sent us a list of the transactions on the account. These are not credit card 
statements, so they dont show the running  balance on the account. But Mr R has sent us 
one credit card statement. The transactions shown on Mr Rs statement also show  up on the 
list of transactions   and I think the transactions after this date are consistent with the 
amount HFC says was transferred  when the debt was sold in 2009.
Ref: DRN98284833So on balance, I think its most likely  that this transaction list is an accurate reflection  of how 
Mr R used the account. And so in the absence of better information, I think  this is the best 
information I have  about how Mr R used the account. 
I appreciate this is going to be very disappointing  to Mr R, and Id like to assure him that I did 
seriously consider  the points he raised.  But as Ive already explained in my provisional 
decision, if Mr R hadnt claimed on the policy I wouldnt  expect to see PPI claim payments 
listed among the transactions  and I would also have expected to see Mr R making his 
usual monthly payments  during these  periods. 
HFC has worked out how much Mr R paid towards the PPI and deducted the claim.  As the 
claim was greater than what Mr R paid because of the policy, this means  he gets nothing. In 
all the circumstances,  I think  the amount it worked out is fair.
Finally, Mr R has asked  me to look at the payment he received because  of the commission 
HFC got  hes concerned that HFC only looked  at one of the five card numbers connected 
to his account.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the rules  HFC has to follow only required  them  to 
pay him this compensation if it hadnt  mis-sold the policy  and I saw no reason in Mr Rs 
case to depart from these  rules. This means that HFC didnt  need  to pay Mr R this 
compensation  and if HFC had agreed it shouldnt have sold Mr R the policy to begin with 
he wouldnt  have got anything.
Because of this, Im not asking HFC to look at this offer again. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think its fair for HFC Bank  Limited to deduct the claim from Mr Rs 
compensation. So I dont direct  HFC Bank to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9828483