K820x#14Complaint
Ms S says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
Background
Ms S took out a PPI policy  as part of a mortgage  package in 1992,  where  it was free for the 
first 12 months. Then Ms S paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium,  which  didnt 
attract interest. It covered  her mortgage payments in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case. 
While I know this will disappoint Ms S, I have not found that this policy  was mis-sold   Ill 
explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so there 
arent still full records of what happened. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to 
have happened  based on the evidence I do have.
This PPI policy was sold as part of a mortgage package, with key features such  as lower  
payments at the start,  home insurance,  and free PPI for the first 12 months. Neither side 
have been able to give me a copy of Ms Ss mortgage application,  but I do have a copy  of 
the leaflet for this type of mortgage. It clearly and prominently  set out that PPI was included  
as part of the package  indeed, it was presented as a key selling point. And Ms S was 
taking out a substantial mortgage,  so it seems likely that with such a significant  commitment 
Ms S wouldve looked at the main features  of the products she was choosing. If Ms S didnt 
want PPI, its difficult  to see why she chose this product  and not one of the many other types 
of mortgages  that didnt  come with PPI. And it seems unlikely that she actually wanted  to 
decline the entire package based on the fact it included PPI, not least because it was free for 
the first 12 months and could be cancelled at any time.
Ref: DRN95187242Ms S pointed out that her offer and completion documents didnt mention the PPI, and 
I understand her point.  But since those were mainly setting out the costs  involved,  it makes 
some sense that they didnt list the PPI, since it was free at that point. There doesnt seem to 
be any dispute that Ms S knew shed taken PPI. The product literature prominently displayed  
the 12 months free PPI as a key feature. And Ms S did get her policy certificate, which 
reiterated it was only free for 12 months. Then  Nationwide  sent her a letter  before the free 
period ran out, to remind her it was ending and to tell her what shed be paying unless she 
cancelled. Ms S explained she didnt get the letter as she was staying elsewhere owing to 
her life situation. But Nationwide wouldve sent it to the address shed last told them  she was 
living at, and where she was paying  the mortgage  for, so I dont think  they did anything 
wrong there.  And Ms S wouldve presumably come back to her home  at some point and 
seen her post  or had it forwarded   and been aware of the PPI free period running out. But 
theres no evidence  that she then cancelled  it or otherwise  disputed  paying for it at the time.
So based  on the evidence I have, it seems  most  likely that Ms S was made aware that the 
PPI was an included  part of the mortgage  package, and that she chose that package. And 
I think Nationwide made her sufficiently aware  that it was only free for 12 months, and that 
shed have to pay for it after that.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S, so they didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. They did have to give Ms S clear  information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Ms S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Ms S was eligible for cover. While I understand she had gone  
through a truly tough time in the years before the sale, it doesnt look like she was 
significantly affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations and couldve 
claimed on it if shed needed to.
Ms S had another  insurance policy, but it didnt  cover her for very much or for very long,  and 
in any case it looks like it ended before she took out the PPI. She also had some savings 
and work  benefits,  but the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and it offered her more 
comprehensive cover   paying out for up to 24 months in any one claim. It also meant she 
could protect her savings  and use them  for other things.  Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind 
that this mortgage  was Ms Ss sole responsibility,  and if she fell behind  on the payments she 
couldve lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  really been useful for her in 
protecting her home and giving  some  peace of mind.  The policy was competitively priced 
given how much it would pay out in a claim,  and it was free for the first year. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Ms S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  was likely to have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN95187243My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9518724