K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Miss S complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as National & 
Provincial Building  Society)  mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr D and Miss S in 1992 in connection with 
a mortgage. The policy provided Mr D and Miss S with cover if they couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr D and Miss S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Miss Ss case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr D and Miss Ss needs?
- Did Santander give Mr D and Miss S the information they needed  to decide whether 
to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
D and Miss S are worse off as a result. That is, would  they have done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr D and Miss Ss case and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mr D and Miss S say they didnt know the PPI had been added  to their account,  and that 
they wouldnt have  agreed to buy it. They say that when Miss S was off work sick some  time 
after the policy was arranged they didnt  make a claim and fell into arrears. Mr D and Miss S 
consider this shows they didnt know they had the PPI. Ive noted everything  theyve said.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr D and Miss S 
when the policy was sold.
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  much  documentation from the time of the sale,  as 
these events happened many years  ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar  to some other 
cases Ive seen. But Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage application form that 
Mr D and Miss S completed   and Ive looked  carefully at that document.
Ref: DRN90553842The application form includes  a separate  section about PPI, and Mr D and Miss S had to 
choose whether  they wanted  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment,  or just 
accident and sickness. Mr D and Miss S chose cover for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. This suggests to me that there must  have been  some sort of discussion 
about the PPI.
I accept that Mr D and Miss S didnt claim on the policy when Miss S was off work  sick. But 
its possible theyd forgotten they had the cover,  rather than they didnt know  about it in the 
first place.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I havent  been  able to safely conclude  that Santander  didnt 
make Mr D and Miss S aware of the PPI. On balance, I think its likely that Mr D and Miss S 
knew they had a choice and decided  to take out the policy. 
Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr D and Miss S to take out the policy  and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time.  I say this because:
-Mr D and Miss S were  eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
-Mr D and Miss S arent sure whether they were  entitled to sick pay from their 
employers if they couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But even if they did 
receive sick pay, the policy  wouldve  paid out in addition to their employer benefits. 
So I think Mr D and Miss S would have had some  use for the policy,  even  if they 
were entitled to sick pay from their employers.   
-Mr D and Miss S werent affected  by any of the conditions limiting the policys main  
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions.  As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr D and Miss 
S before they agreed to buy it. But Mr D and Miss S took out the policy knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely Mr D and Miss S would have  made a 
different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr D and Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr D and Miss S werent affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations  and the policy seems  to have  been  affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely Mr D and Miss S would have  made  a different  decision if better information had 
been provided  overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN90553843my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9055384