K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wouldn't  allow him the full benefit of 
his earned no claims discount  (NCD) on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr R applied for a UKI policy online.  He said he had nine years NCD. So the premium  UKI 
charged him allowed nine years NCD. UKI then asked for proof of that which  Mr R provided. 
It said it couldn't accept  some of the NCD. That was because  Mr R had earned it on a policy 
that had expired more than three years ago, which was outside the timeframe UKI would 
allow. UKI adjusted the NCD and charged Mr R an additional premium. 
Mr R didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  
UKI had done  anything  wrong. Mr R didn't agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr R told UKI he had nine years NCD. Hed previously earned  eleven years NCD on a 
private car policy. Hed then taken  a job with a company  car and hadn't  renewed the private 
car policy. The company  car was insured under the companys policy  and Mr R drove that 
for a further two years without any claims.  So, as hed had many  years of claims free driving 
Mr R believed hed earned the maximum nine years  NCD UKI allows.
Mr R applied for the policy online. When doing  so the online application process provides 
information about what counts towards  evidence of NCD. It says that NCD  entitlement must 
have been used on a policy within the last two years. But the NCD Mr R had previously 
earned on his private policy hadn't been used within the last two years. So it was outside  
UKIs criteria  to qualify as earned NCD. And it told Mr R that he couldn't use that NCD. 
Instead it said it would only offer the two years  NCD Mr R earned on his company policy.
Mr R didnt think that was fair. He said hed been  driving continuously and the fact hed 
changed policy types didn't change his risk to UKI as a driver. He told us that hes since 
cancelled his UKI policy as another insurer accepted his proof of continuous NCD 
entitlement.
I can certainly understand Mr Rs logic. From  his perspective hes been  continuously  driving 
while insured and without incident  for many  years. And the fact his policy  changed from a 
private policy to a company policy during that period didnt affected  his ability to continue to 
drive well; so in his opinion it shouldn't change the risk he presents to UKI. 
But were  not the industry regulator.  So it's not my role to tell an insurer  how to go about 
assessing the risk that potential policyholders  present. Similarly its for each individual 
insurer to decide  for itself what it will accept as evidence  of NCD and how to go about  
applying that once accepted. And those  considerations aren't standard  across the industry.  
Ref: DRN91939232Those are decisions that insurers  are entitled to make as part of their commercial  
judgement.   
In this case its apparent  UKI has specific criteria about what it will accept as proof of earned 
NCD. And while Mr R might prefer it if UKI applied some discretion in his favour, I don't think 
it's fair to criticise it for not doing so. Thats  because, in these circumstances, UKIs approach  
should ensure  that it applies its NCD consistently  and so treats  all of its customers  will 
similar situations in the same way. And I think thats reasonable. 
Also, as I've said above, Mr R had access to the criteria for accepting NCD during the 
application process. And it appears  that Mr R was aware of that when he was applying for 
the policy. So, I think Mr R was mistaken to say that he had nine years NCD when the 
information available online indicated  that he wouldn't qualify for that. And I don't think UKI 
has treated him unfairly in insisting that its criteria should also apply to him as it does for all 
its other customers. 
Therefore the premium  quoted for Mr R was based on the incorrect NCD. We don't 
necessarily think it's fair for an insurer to simply impose an additional  premium  in these 
cases. Where a customer has made a mistake when applying for a policy  thats known in the 
insurance industry as a careless misrepresentation. In those circumstances,  an insurer is 
then entitled to cancel the consumers policy. But we think its reasonable for an insurer  to 
explain to the consumer theres a problem and then give them the option of paying the 
additional premium  in order to keep the policy going, or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves.
I've listened  to a phone call in which Mr R discussed his complaint with UKI. In that it told 
Mr R that if he didn't pay the additional premium it would cancel the policy.  It would have 
been preferable  if UKI had made  it clear that Mr R could cancel the policy  himself  if he so 
wished. But I think its evident from the call that Mr R knew  that he had two choices, 
cancellation of the policy or paying the additional  premium. And he chose to pay the 
additional premium.  
Then after finding a more  suitable policy, he later cancelled the policy himself. So I think  he 
could have taken  that action when  UKI told him it might cancel the policy. So in the specific  
circumstances of this case,  I don't think Mr R was prejudiced because UKI didn't give him 
the option of cancelling  the policy initially. So I don't think it treated him unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9193923