K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policies 
taken out in 1994 and 2002 in connection  with joint mortgages. Mr N and Mrs N say Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
background
Mr N and Mrs N took out a PPI policy alongside  each  mortgage they held in 1994 and 2002. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policies which offered accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. 
The 1994  policy  covered Mr N and Mrs N in equal shares.
The 2002  policy  only covered Mr N for accident, sickness  and unemployment cover. 
So sometimes I will only refer to Mr N, but I will refer to Mr N and Mrs N where appropriate.
They said they were  told they were  advised to take PPI to secure the mortgages;  they were  
told it was beneficial for them. They had good  employee benefits, so they say they didnt 
need the PPI. They  did not think the policies were  suitable for them. So they conclude both 
policies were mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  not be upheld. Mr N and Mrs N disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns and Mrs Ns case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold. I know this will be a 
disappointing result,  so Ill explain  why.
Bank of Scotland should have made  Mr N and Mrs N aware  they had a choice in buying  the 
policies. Mr N and Mrs N said they were  told they needed PPI to secure the mortgages.
the 1994 policy
Neither Bank  of Scotland nor Mr N and Mrs N have any paperwork from the time of the PPI 
sale in 1994. I dont think thats  surprising  given that the sale took place around 26 years  
ago. But it does mean I have limited  information  about the sale,  so I have to decide what  I 
think is likely  to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader  
circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely  the optional nature would have  been  made clear. And nothing  Mr N and Mrs N has 
told me makes me think Bank of Scotland  didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I 
think its more likely  Bank of Scotland made  it clear to Mr N and Mrs N they had a choice 
Ref: DRN92988262about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it although I can understand why they may not 
remember this now.
the 2002 policy
Bank of Scotland has produced a copy of the separate PPI application and the direct debit 
mandate which were  signed by Mr N. I think these documents show PPI was a separate 
product which  they could  have declined by leaving the form blank. I also noted this policy  
was tailored to cover  Mr N only. I think they were aware they did not have  to have PPI to 
cover Mrs N even  though she was working. So I think there is enough evidence here to show  
Bank of Scotland probably  did present PPI as a separate and optional product.
the 1994 and 2002 policies
Bank of Scotland says both sales were  advised. For advised sales,  the policies had to be 
suitable for their financial needs and they had to have enough information to decide  whether 
to buy them.
I think both policies were  suitable for Mr Ns and Mrs Ns needs. I say this because  they 
were both eligible  to buy PPI, it seemed affordable at the time of the sales.  And they were  
not affected by the main exclusions and limitations in the policies. So I then looked into their 
financial circumstances in 1994  and 2002  to see if the policies were  still suitable for them.
I noted Mr N and Mrs N said they would each receive sick pay benefits from their employers 
at the time of each sale. But the policies  could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. 
This would have been for longer than and in addition to their employee benefits. I noted also 
that Mr N and Mrs N said they had some savings  at the time of the PPI sales. But having the 
policies would have  meant the mortgage  repayments could be covered for a length of time if 
Mr N and/or Mrs N were  unable to work, leaving their savings for other expenses.
I noted Mr N and Mrs N had borrowed funds  against  a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if Mr N and/or Mrs N were unable  to work would have 
been important  to them.
Also for advised sales, the PPI information  had to be clear  enough in 1994 and 2002 for Mr 
N and Mrs N to make  an informed decision.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
Mr N and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But having decided  
Mr N and Mrs N chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like they wanted this type of cover.  And  
for the reasons Ive explained above  - it looks  like the policies would  have been  useful  for 
them if something went wrong.
It also looks like the policies were  affordable  for them  so I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr N and Mrs N off from taking out the cover. And overall  I dont 
think Mr N and Mrs N has lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs N. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs N because:  
Ref: DRN92988263in respect of the 1994 policy, Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr N and Mrs N 
about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr N and Mrs N, that was unfair and
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
In respect of the 2002 policy, Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr N and Mrs 
N back some of the cost of the PPI. And I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ive thought about everything Mr N and Mrs N have said - including  what they said about 
their employee benefits, length of time working  and the current status of the mortgages.  But 
these points dont  change my decision. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing  for Mr N and Mrs N. Its always difficult  
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mr N 
and Mrs N have said and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands  sales  processes. And I 
dont think  on balance   I can fairly  and reasonably uphold  their complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policies were  not mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and Mrs N. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr N and Mrs N any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it 
has already done this in respect  of the 1994  policy. So I dont award  any further 
compensation.
And Bank of Scotland plc has already made  a payment to Mr N and Mrs N in respect 
of the 2002 policy, so I dont award any further compensation.
Bank of Scotland plc should make direct contact  with Mr N and Mrs N to make sure 
they have received  both payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 November 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9298826