K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr M says FICL mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr M owed on his store  card. The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mr M couldnt work  because 
he had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided  life cover as well as 
price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional  and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Ive been  given a copy  of the application form completed by 
Mr M at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  
 the name  used  by FICL for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take 
out Account Cover. 
Mr M has signed the section to confirm he wanted the cover.  If Mr M didnt want  to take out 
the PPI he could have left this section blank. And Mr M has signed the overall  application 
form which suggests it reflected what he wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mr M 
chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to Mr M. 
So it didnt have  to check if the policy  was right for him. But FICL did need to make  sure it 
gave Mr M clear enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide for himself if he 
should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr M 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
Ref: DRN95524272such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
he was already aware.
Mr M has told us that he would receive  sick pay from his employer  so he didnt think he 
needed the cover. But this policy would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay he received 
and, potentially for longer. So I think it could still have provided  a useful benefit to him.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Mr M has lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9552427