K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) failed  to 
provide him with information, as it was required to, with regards to his pension Life Time 
Allowance (LTA) position when he transferred pre-existing funds into a Hargreaves Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2008.  
In 2018 a tax liability  arose in his SIPP, based on the LTA being exceeded. He holds 
Hargreaves responsible  for this and says the liability  could and would  have been  mitigated 
(with protection of his LTA) if Hargreaves had given him requisite and relevant information at 
the outset.
background
A summary  of facts is as follows:
Mr H first retired, on compulsory terms, at age 55 in 1998;  he engaged in subsequent 
employment until 2003 when he finally retired at age 60; he was part of each 
employers pension  scheme; his pension contributions  ended  in 2003.
He set up the Hargreaves SIPP on a non-advised  basis  in 2008,  no advice was given 
by Hargreaves and it was not obliged to provide  any advice. However,  the terms 
agreed for the service included information about the LTA.  The terms also suggested  
he should take advice on the application.  Information about the SIPP  was provided to 
him in an application  pack.  That pack included, with regards to the LTA,  the following 
notice  
The lifetime allowance for your total pensions accumulated  is £1.65  million in the 
08/09 tax year and is currently  set to rise annually  until at least  2010. If you exceed 
this you are likely to incur a tax charge on the excess. For pensions built up prior to 
6th April 2006  you can register  before  6th April 2009 to protect the funds from the 
potential tax charge.  If you have  registered  for enhanced protection  you should not 
make further  pension contributions. If you would like more information please  refer to 
the Key Features  of the HL Vantage SIPP .
The Key Features document for the SIPP included the following  
Any funds in excess  of this allowance will be liable to a tax charge, referred  to as the 
Lifetime Allowance Charge of 55% if taken as a lump sum or 25% if made available 
to provide a taxable pension, unless the income is provided on death.
In late 2018  Mr H received communication from Hargreaves in which  notice was 
given about the tax liability that was to be deducted from the SIPP because his LTA 
had been exceeded.
Given that he had made  no further  pension contributions since  2003, Mr H says he could 
have applied  for and achieved protection/exemption  from HMRC with regards to his LTA if 
he had been properly informed by Hargreaves, in 2008, about his LTA position. On this 
basis, he claims compensation from Hargreaves for the deducted tax liability. 
Hargreaves disputes the claim, mainly on the grounds that it did not, and was not obliged to, 
give advice to Mr H in 2008; so, it says, it cannot reasonably be responsible for LTA advice 
Ref: DRN96065732he considers he should  have received; and that information was given to him in 2008  about 
LTA, so it was incumbent upon him to take advice on it at the time.  Hargreaves also refers to 
an event in 2016 in which Mr H applied for an Uncrystallised Funds  Pension Lump Sum from 
the SIPP and it says the 2016 version of the SIPPs Key Features document was given to 
him at the time, including the following additional  notice about  LTA  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. In the main:
He noted the non-advised  nature of Hargreaves service to Mr H and he made  the 
same references to information given to him in 2008, about  the LTA,  within  the 
service terms  and SIPP application  pack.  In addition, he highlighted further  notice 
about the LTA (which  included information  about  protection  that could have been 
sought for it) given  to him in the technical notes for the SIPP.  He considered  this 
evidence that Mr H was duly informed about the LTA and protection available  for it.
He also referred to the crystallisation  event that automatically occurred in 2018 when 
(and because) Mr H turned 75 years old and explained how that automatically 
triggered calculation  of his LTA usage  across all pension plans (excluding his State 
Pension) he held  and calculation of the tax due on any pension savings above the 
LTA; hence the tax liability  he was notified  about  and incurred.
Mr H did not accept this outcome.  In the main,  he considered that the need to protect, or 
merit in protecting,  his LTA was not made  apparent by Hargreaves in 2008; and that it 
should have either rejected his SIPP application  or queried it with regards to protecting  his 
LTA. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator for broadly similar reasons.
The first point to make  is that Hargreaves had no advisory duty towards  Mr H in 2008.  I 
appreciate that there is a secondary  issue to consider with regards to information provided  to 
him at the time  which  I address next  but I gather, from available  evidence, a distinct  
impression that the lack of advice on managing his LTA position (at the time of setting  up the 
SIPP) is more likely (than  not) what Mr H holds  Hargreaves responsible for. His expectation 
that Hargreaves should have rejected his SIPP application in relation to LTA considerations 
or that such considerations should  have been queried by Hargreaves supports  this 
conclusion. 
In the context of a non-advised  service, Hargreaves was obliged  to do neither; and, as I note 
below, if Mr H wanted meaningful consideration of his LTA position,  with relevant queries in 
this respect and/or advice on whether (or not) to proceed with the SIPP  application, he 
should have obtained advice on the application.
Despite the non-advised context, Hargreaves retained responsibility in 2008  to provide 
information to Mr H relevant to his SIPP application.  The present complaint is about his LTA 
position. I am satisfied  that adequate information  about the LTA was made available  to him 
in the terms for Hargreaves service  and in the SIPP application pack  (and related 
Ref: DRN96065733documents). The contents from these documents, as quoted  above,  provided enough 
information to Mr H about the LTA; about how much  it was at the time; about  the tax charge 
that applied if it was exceeded;  and about  protection he could have applied  for to mitigate or 
avoid such tax (and the deadline for doing  so). The terms of service also suggested that he 
should take advice on the application.
These contents ought reasonably to have focused  a part of Mr Hs attention on his LTA 
position, as he proceeded with the SIPP  application  in 2008. If he did not consider them 
clear enough, he ought  reasonably to have  sought advice in order to address that aspect 
further and properly. Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Hargreaves has or 
shares responsibility in this matter or that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 December  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9606573