K821x#15complaint
Mrs M acquired  a used car in September 2018, by hire purchase over 36 months with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMFL). Her car started exhibiting  faults  in October  2018,  
and unsuccessful repairs were attempted over the following five months. 
In April 2019, SMFL and the supplying dealership agreed with Mrs M to reject her car. Mrs M 
complains that the resulting settlement amount she received from SMFL was insufficient. 
background
Mrs Ms car travelled a little under 2,600 miles between the point of supply and rejection. 
Mrs M was without  the use of her car for an extended period, while repairs were  being 
attempted, during which a courtesy vehicle was not provided.
SMFL wrote to Mrs M in April 2019, saying:
It and the supplying dealership had agreed that her car should be rejected
Her hire purchase agreement would  be cancelled
It would  refund all the payments she had made under the agreement,  less a car 
usage (distance  travelled) charge  of £0.25 per mile
It would  remove all information it had recorded on her credit file, relating to this 
agreement
Mrs Ms agreement  did not require her to make an advance payment. She made  four 
monthly payments  (October 2018 to January 2019,  inclusive) of just over £300.  The usage 
charge was a little over £600, and so she received a refund of just over £600. She 
complained that she was only receiving  about half the money she had paid for the car.  
Mrs M also complained that she had incurred out-of-pocket expenses  while  she was without 
the use of the car, for which  she wanted refunds. These expenses were:
a)Car Diagnostic Test (£96)  She was required to have her car tested, in order  to 
confirm its faults
b)Two thirds of Car Tax (£84)  She paid for six months road tax in October 2019, but 
she only had use of her car for two of these months 
c)10 weeks of extra Horse Livery  Charges (£650)  Between  mid December 2018 and 
late February 2019, while she did not have  access to a car, she could  not take 
advantage of lower  charges that she would normally have paid
d)Holiday Savings Plan payments (a little over £350 per month)   She cancelled these 
payments in January 2019, because  she needed  to fund the monthly payments 
required to acquire another car (which a close family  member did in February  2019)
e)Car Servicing Costs in mid November 2018
Ref: DRN92396842Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He agreed with Mrs M that 
she should receive refunds for items  (a), (b) and (c) above. But he recommended  that she 
should not receive refunds for the following:
More than the hire purchase agreement payments refund of £607.34 already 
determined by SMFL  our investigator thought the deduction for car usage  was fair 
and reasonable
Holiday Savings Plan payments  our investigator noted that Mrs M stopped making  
monthly hire purchase payments  after January 2019, and so would have been  able to 
use those funds  to pay for the acquisition of another car from February 2019 onwards
Car Servicing Costs  our investigator  said that he had seen no supporting evidence 
or invoice 
Our investigator also recommended that:
Mrs M should  receive compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset she had 
experienced, as a result of acquiring  sub-standard goods
SMFL  should remove all references  it may have made on Mrs Ms credit file, relating 
to her hire purchase agreement 
Mrs M accepted our investigators  recommended settlement, but SMFL did not. And so this 
complaint was referred for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
SMFL has a responsibility to ensure  that goods  of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied. This means that a reasonable person would have 
regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances.  In this 
complaint, SMFL and the supplying dealership have been accepted that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality, and it has been rejected.  
On the one hand, if the car had not been used (or used very little), then Mrs M could 
reasonably have expected a full refund of all payments she made under her hire purchase  
agreement. But the car had been  used, not excessively but a fair amount. And so her refund 
was reduced to reflect car usage.
On the other hand, Mrs M was without the use of her car for an extended  period, while 
repairs were being  attempted, during which a courtesy vehicle was not provided. As a result, 
she spent money that she would  not have done, if she had been able to use her car.
And so, because it has been accepted  that her car was not of satisfactory  quality, it is 
similarly fair that she should be compensated for reasonable expenditures.  
Our investigator recommended refunds of three items of expenditure, which  he felt were 
reasonable. He also recommended  financial compensation  for trouble and upset (non-
financial loss) experienced by Mrs M. But he did not recommend  refunds for two other items 
of expenditure,  where he felt that refunds would not be appropriate. 
Ref: DRN92396843SMFL disagreed with these recommendations. In particular, it challenged item (c) above 
(Horse Livery Costs),  saying: 
Mrs M did not make it aware  of this expense, when she was seeking rejection of her 
car 
The evidence of expenditure  provided  was insufficient  it pointed to the lack of 
proper invoices and receipts, relating to the expenditure between mid December 
2018 and late February 2019,  and to what Mrs M described as her normal  payments 
at other  times.
I think the important  point is not when Mrs M made  SMTL aware of this expense, but instead 
whether it is a reasonable and sufficiently  well documented claim.  Mrs M provided 
statements from the service supplier, in support of her claim,  and said that other  evidence  
was not available because payments had all been  made in cash.  
I acknowledge SMTLs  concern about  the very limited documentation. But, based on the 
available information,  I find it is more likely than not that Mrs M was incurring a lower  level of 
expenditure on this service before  mid December 2018, which  increased for the subsequent 
10 weeks because she was without  the use of her car. 
Mrs M is asking for reimbursement of her extra  costs over this period. And, on balance,  I find 
that the available statements are just about sufficient to document these  extra costs. 
I also agree  with our investigator that items  (a) and (b) above  are similarly reasonable 
expenses, for which Mrs M should be reimbursed. This means the total amount to be 
reimbursed is £830,  made up of:
£96  Car Diagnostic Test
£84  Car Tax
£650  Extra Horse  Livery Charges
In relation to Mrs Ms non-financial losses,  there are technical notes about distress  and 
inconvenience on our public website, in which we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I feel that compensation of £200 in this instance (as recommended by our investigator)  is 
appropriate, given  the circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint. It is consistent with our approach 
to awarding compensation. My consideration of the evidence leads me to conclude  that she 
suffered moderate  distress and inconvenience.
This all means that I have  come to the same conclusions as our investigator.
Ref: DRN92396844my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
In full and final settlement  of this complaint, I order Specialist Motor Finance Limited:
1.To pay compensation of £830  to Mrs M, in reimbursement of expenditure she has 
incurred
2.To pay compensation of £200  directly  to Mrs M, for distress and inconvenience she 
has experienced 
3.To remove all references it has made  on Mrs Ms credit  file, relating to her hire 
purchase agreement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9239684