K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that her interest only mortgage with Bank  of Scotland plc was unsuitable. 
She says the mortgage isnt affordable, its term runs into her retirement and she has no 
means of repaying  it other than to sell her house.
background
Ms H took out an interest only mortgage  with Halifax in March 2008. The term expires  in 
2025. She says the mortgage  wasnt suitable as the term went into her retirement  and 
Halifax didnt check how shed repay it. She said Halifax didnt give her illustrations  of capital 
repayment mortgages or suggest ways to repay  her interest only mortgage other than by 
selling her house.
Ms H says Halifax  didnt do an affordability assessment when she took out further advances 
in July 2008 and May 2009,  and it lent irresponsibly.
Our investigator said Halifaxs notes show it discussed the mortgage term. Ms H said she 
intended to work to 70 and her pension would cover payments. It gave her illustrations for a 
repayment mortgage, and its notes suggested there  was a discussion  about how Ms H 
planned to repay the mortgage. At that time,  Halifax didnt have to verify the repayment 
vehicle and sale of the property was acceptable  as a repayment strategy. Based on the 
information Halifax had, the mortgage  was suitable  for Ms Hs needs  and circumstances and 
the further advances appeared affordable.
Ms H didnt agree, and so the complaint has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H commented on the investigators view in detail, as well as on documents  shed 
received in response to a data subject  access request to Halifax.  Consistent with our 
informal approach,  I wont  include that amount of detail here.  Ms H is of course  aware of the 
background. Instead, Ill focus on whats at the heart  of this complaint  whether the 
mortgage recommended  in 2008  was suitable for Ms Hs needs and circumstances at that 
time.
Halifax recommended  the mortgage to Ms H. So it had to ask her for enough information to 
be able to recommend  a mortgage that was suitable for her needs  and circumstances.
Halifax carried out a fact find, and provided  a copy  to us. Halifax asked about  Ms Hs income 
and outgoings  and her financial commitments. There was a discussion about the mortgage 
term going past normal retirement age, and whether it would be affordable on Ms Hs 
pension income.  Halifax  also sent copies of a recommendation letter  which summarised  
Ms Hs stated aims and priorities,  illustrations  for a capital  repayment or part capital 
repayment mortgage, and its advisers notes in relation  to the further  advance  in 2009.
Halifax cant provide  all of the documents from 2008 to 2009.  Given  the time thats passed, I 
dont draw any adverse  inferences from this. Where  the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
Ref: DRN97962772consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
circumstances. 
Halifax assessed the mortgage and further  advances as affordable for Ms H. Its notes say 
what she told it about her income appeared credible, given her occupation. It took into 
account outgoings related  to a mortgage shed taken out jointly  in 2008. In 2009, Ms H said 
shed be making  overpayments, which suggests  she wasnt  worried about meeting interest 
payments. 
Ms H will be 67 when the term expires. Halifaxs notes say she intended to retire  at 70 and 
the interest payments would be affordable from her pension income. She had a professional 
job and working  to 70 wasnt unreasonable. Ms H also said she intended to work past 65 
when she took out the further  advance in 2009.  I dont think  it shows  any wrongdoing on 
Halifaxs part that it noted she said she could afford to pay the mortgage from her pension  
when she didnt intend to retire until after the term ended. In effect, it checked what  would  
happen if she did retire  earlier  than shed intended.
When telling  us about her complaint Ms H said Halifax should  have  told her that her 
repayment strategy  sale of her property  was no longer appropriate. I think theres been a 
misunderstanding here. Rules on mortgage  regulation have changed since Ms H took out 
her mortgage. But the changes  dont  apply retrospectively. Of course, changes happen over 
time and this strategy might not now suit Ms Hs plans. But this doesnt mean it was wrong 
for Halifax to accept Ms Hs choice  of repayment  strategy at the time she took out the 
mortgage.
Halifaxs notes say repayment strategy  was discussed but dont say what  Ms Hs strategy  
was. Given Ms H has said it was her intention to sell the property to repay the mortgage, it 
could be that this was the strategy  that was discussed. If so, I cant  say it was wrong for 
Halifax to offer her an interest only mortgage on that basis.  When  Ms H took out the 
mortgage, sale of the property  was an acceptable  repayment strategy. The application 
documents also say that Ms H had investments of £100,000. 
Halifax gave Ms H illustrations for capital  repayment  or part capital repayment mortgages.  Its 
documents say Ms H wanted to keep initial payments low, so this could be why Ms H took 
out an interest only mortgage.  The monthly payments for an interest  only mortgage 
appeared affordable and Ms Hs repayment  strategy was at that time acceptable. 
From what  Ms H has said, since taking out the mortgage shes had periods of financial 
hardship due to health problems and family circumstances.  Ms H retired earlier  than 
expected. Im very sorry for the circumstances shes described. But Halifax  didnt know when 
she took out the mortgage that her circumstances would change.  
I think it was reasonable  for Halifax to assess the mortgage as suitable for Ms H, based on 
the information it had. 
What happens  now?
Ms H asks for compensation.  She says if shed had a repayment mortgage shed be coming 
to the end, with the capital repaid. But if Ms H had taken out a repayment  mortgage shed 
have paid more  each month.  I dont think its fair to ask Halifax to pay compensation or 
reduce the mortgage balance, while Ms H has also had the benefit  of the lower interest-only 
Ref: DRN97962773monthly payments.  If Ms H had funds available, she could have made overpayments to 
reduce the balance, as she said she intended to do in 2009.
Ms H might still be intending to repay her mortgage by selling her property and downsizing  
before the term expires. However, if this is no longer what Ms H wants to do, or shes  
worried about meeting her monthly interest  payments in the meantime, then Halifax  and 
Ms H will need  to review her situation to see what support Halifax  can offer.  
The regulator expects  lenders to engage proactively with their interest  only mortgage 
customers in the run up to expiry.  Theres less than five years  before the term of Ms Hs 
mortgage expires. Ms H has also mentioned being  in financial hardship. I would urge Ms H 
to get in contact  with Halifax  to explore her options  and what support Halifax  can offer.  Id 
remind Halifax of its obligation to treat her fairly.
If Ms H doesnt want to discuss her circumstances  with Halifax  at this time, she should 
consider taking independent  advice to explore her options. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9796277