K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc gave him a loan that he couldnt afford 
to pay off and didnt take account of his mental  health problems when he applied for the 
loan.
background
Mr Bs had serious health problems including mental  health problems linked to brain damage 
for many years. He had a bank account with RBS and, between  2014 and 2016 he took out 
a total of eight  loans  for increasing  amounts with RBS. The most recent was approved in 
August 2016 for £17,900 with a monthly  payment  of £447.16 over 5 years.
In December 2016, Mr B contacted his RBS branch  because his benefits had been stopped 
and he was going into hospital so wouldnt  be able to make payments on his loan. He says 
he was told interest would be frozen on the loan which didnt happen but loan payments 
were suspended for a while and Mr Bs credit  file reflected this. Mr B hasnt been able to 
make payments on his account since then. He complained to RBS because he said interest 
shouldve been  frozen on his account  but they rejected his complaint.  
So he came to this service. He complained about  the way RBS treated him when he had 
trouble paying  the loan and said he didnt think he shouldve been  given  the loan in the first 
place. This was because  he couldnt  afford  it and didnt understand the process very well. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and said RBS should write off the 
debt. But RBS disagreed and asked  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I find this 
complaint should  be upheld  and the loan should be written off and Ill explain why.
Mr Bs been  suffering from mental health and other health problems for many years  and hes 
had a carer since  2011. I can see from the evidence Ive had that hes extremely  vulnerable  
and may have problems  understanding  financial information. But even if RBS didnt know 
about this, his only income for many  years has been state benefits and its clear that he 
would never  go back  to work so RBS shouldve looked carefully  at how hed be able to pay 
off his loan. 
Hes been a long term customer of RBS and from 2014 to 2016  he started to borrow 
increasing amounts  of money with eight  loans being granted  over that period. I can see 
applications were  refused  twice over that time.  In late 2015 it was noted  that a loan was 
declined because there was evidence of loan  churning. This was because  six loans had 
been applied  for over 18 months for more money  each  time. But RBS went  on to grant Mr B 
four more  loans over the next eight months. This meant Mr Bs debt went from £10,450 in 
July 2015 to £17,900 in August  2016.  But his financial situation  hadnt really changed over 
that time.  In my view, RBS was aware Mr B was using each loan to pay off the previous one 
even if some of the money was being  used for other  things. The number of loans over such  
a short  period showed he wasnt  able to manage his debt.
Mr Bs benefits were cut soon after the last loan was granted. Although I can see he hoped  
to pay off the loan following a tribunal case in 2017,  this hasnt happened. Mr Bs now been 
Ref: DRN93305782evicted from his home because hes unable to pay rent and has serious medical problems.  
In the circumstances, its clear to me that theres  no realistic chance hed ever be able to pay 
off his loan with RBS.
Ive looked at the paperwork for the last loan and I dont think RBS really checked it was 
affordable for Mr B. This is because it includes details of mortgage  payments when Mr Bs 
never had a mortgage. Mr Bs been  banking  with RBS for many years so RBS shouldve 
known this. The loans  agreed in April and August 2016 wouldve left Mr B with under £100  
per month to live on based  on the calculations of the applications. I dont think  this was 
reasonable so I find it was irresponsible to lend Mr B this amount in the circumstances.
I dont think RBS shouldve given Mr B the loan in August 2016 based on what it shouldve  
known about his borrowing and financial circumstances. So I need to consider what it should 
do to put things right. Mr B is clearly  vulnerable  and his situation at the moment is extremely  
difficult. His only source of income is benefits  and theres no chance  thatll change  in the 
future. So I dont  think its reasonable for him to have this unaffordable debt hanging over 
him. Taking  account  the seriousness of the circumstances, I find that RBS should write off 
the debt completely. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. To put 
things right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should  write off the balance of the loan Mr B 
took out in August 2016 completely.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330578