K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) carried out insufficient checks  before 
providing him with a loan. 
background
Mr F took 1 loan from Uncle Buck in January 2018 and it looks  as though Mr F has had 
some problems repaying this loan.  
A summary  of Mr Fs borrowing, based  on the information given to us by Uncle Buck  can be 
found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datenumber of 
contractual  
instalmentsMax 
contractual  
instalment
1 £200.00 21/01/2018 02/01/2019 6 £57.66
In our adjudicators latest findings,  she didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint as she didnt  think  
Uncle Buck  had treated him unfairly. The adjudicator explained that Uncle  Buck did carry out 
a credit search before it provided  the loan, and the results indicated  there  had been  some 
previous short term lending but she didnt  think this shouldve  led to Uncle Buck  to decline 
the loan application. 
 
No agreement could  be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Mr F could  repay his loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN90977102Uncle Buck  says it agreed to Mr Fs applications  after he provided  details  of his monthly 
income and expenditure. And, based  on what he declared, this information suggested that 
Mr F would be able to make the repayment  he was committing to. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide  the loan. 
I accept that Mr Fs actual circumstances may not have  been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Uncle  Buck obtained via the credit checks. 
And Mr Fs actual financial position  might  well have  been apparent if further  information   
such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But Uncle Buck could only make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship, taking into account how 
long the loan was due to run. I dont think it had reached the stage where there  was a 
greater risk of the loan being unsustainable  for Mr F. In these circumstances, I dont think  
Uncle Buck  needed  to take further  steps  to verify the information he provided   such as 
asking Mr F for evidence of his income  and outgoings which Uncle  Buck couldve gathered  
from his bank statements  or copies of any bills. 
Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done  something 
wrong. And, in this case, I think that Uncle Buck carried out reasonable checks  even though  
it looks like the information  it mightve  been  provided wasnt reflective of Mr Fs actual 
financial position. 
Ive also thought about the credit search  results Uncle  Buck has provided  us. What I would 
add at this point, is the information Uncle Buck saw wasnt  exactly the same as what  Mr F 
may have  seen on his actual credit report. 
 
Having thought about the credit check results  and thinking about the individual 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  the information that Uncle Buck saw, which  included  
knowledge of Mr Fs recent  payday  loans and I dont  think that was enough for it to 
automatically decline his application for credit. So I dont  think Uncle Buck  was wrong  to 
have provided  these loans, solely based  on the information it gathered from the credit 
reference agency. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9097710