K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 to 
cover a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H say they took out the PPI during a meeting  and they were led to believe their 
mortgage application would be refused if they didnt  agree to take it out. Ive thought about 
this while  considering the other evidence available. Ive seen from Nationwides  internal  
records that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  commenced in February 1991, but the records  show  
the PPI start date as 1992. Nationwide  has said that in 1992  it carried  out a mailing exercise 
where it sent out PPI applications  by post to all customers who had a mortgage  but hadnt  
taken out PPI  so it believes this is what happened in Mr and Mrs Hs case. And based on 
what Ive seen, I think is most likely what happened.   
This means  that at the time Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI their mortgage was already in 
place  so I think  they wouldve known that they didnt have to have the policy in order to 
have the mortgage. Nationwide have  provided  a sample of the postal application it says is 
the same  or similar to the one Mr and Mrs H wouldve completed at the time  and Ive seen 
no reason to doubt that this type of application wouldve been  sent out in 1992.  This shows 
that the applicant wouldve had the chance to select if they wanted  single or joint cover  and 
the amount of additional benefit required,  if any. Mr and Mrs Hs policy was set up in Mr Hs 
name only and it included an additional £100 benefit. This suggests that Mr and Mrs H made  
these decisions based on their circumstances and completed the application form to agree 
to take out the policy.   
So considering all the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that Nationwide 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs H didnt have  to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it 
out in Mr Hs name only  although I can understand why they cant  remember this.
As per my findings above, I think this PPI policy was sold via a postal application. And as 
this means it wouldve  been  completed  by Mr and Mrs H in their own space and time, and 
without involvement  from anyone from Nationwide except from the provision  of the 
application itself  I dont think Mr and Mrs H wouldve received any advice when deciding 
whether or not to take out the policy. This means Nationwide didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they 
needed to decide if the policy  was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like Mr H (as the insured party)  was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN96280972Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need  the policy as they both had stable  jobs and wouldve 
been entitled to redundancy and sick pay from their employers. As Mr H was the insured 
party Ive mainly looked at his circumstances  at the time,  but Ive also taken into account  
Mrs Hs circumstances when thinking  about the position they wouldve been in if Mr H had 
lost his job. But Mr and Mrs H took out PPI to cover Mr H only,  so I think  its likely  his income 
made up a significant  share of their total household income. Upon a successful claim the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months in event  Mr H was too sick to work or was made 
redundant. And even though Mr H was entitled  to some redundancy and sick pay, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to this. So these  funds couldve been utilised for other 
expenses. And considering the consequences of not being able to make their mortgage  
repayments, I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve benefitted from having this additional security.  
The PPI also had a 90 day waiting period, so Mr H wouldve had to rely on his sick for the 
initial 90 days before  the PPI wouldve  paid out. But Im satisfied he had the means  to do 
that so I dont think knowing this before wouldve put him off taking out the cover.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So overall, I dont think  better information about  the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9628097