K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Premier Account (PA) in 2010.  
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In June 2010 Mrs L took out a PA which incurred a monthly fee.
Mrs L says that when she was sold the PA, she was told it was the right account  for her and 
her previous  account  was obsolete. She says the PA was unsuitable for her and she didnt 
know she could return to a fee free account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ls complaint but Mrs L disagrees so the complaint comes  
to me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ls complaint.
I think that Lloyds  mis-sold  the PA to Mrs L and Ill explain why.
Lloyds says it recommended the PA to Mrs L and advised her to buy it. So Lloyds was 
required to determine  whether it was suitable  for her or not.
Mrs L took out a fee free account  with Lloyds  in 1996. She took out the PA in June 2010.
The benefits  of the PA included worldwide travel insurance including winter sports; AA car 
breakdown service; mobile  phone insurance;  home emergency cover; and a £500 interest 
free overdraft, with better rates for overdrafts above  £500. It cost £25 a month.
At the time of the sale Mrs L says she was on a low income, had a mortgage, was the sole 
provider in the household,  did not travel abroad at all; did not have a car or a drivers licence; 
and did not use any overdraft facility significantly.  She says Lloyds told her at the time of the 
sale that as she had recently  taken out a mortgage she should  take out the PA as it was in 
her best interests  and she has continued  to believe that. She says she has never  wanted  or 
been in a position to significantly  use the benefits and wasnt  aware  until recently she could 
change back to a fee free account.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mrs L visited a garage twice, once in 2010 and once in 
2011; visited a mechanics shop also in 2011; registered a mobile  phone  for the insurance 
cover in 2010; took a holiday in 2012 and a cruise in 2016; and that her overdraft limit was 
increased from £150 to £2000  at the time of the upgrade.
Ref: DRN90728082Mrs L has explained that the two visits to the garage  in 2010/11 were to buy groceries in the 
garage shop. And the visit to the mechanics shop in 2011 was to pay for the lights being 
fixed on her daughters car. She says she mostly  used public transport. 
Mrs L agrees she took one 3 day holiday abroad  in 2013, but explains that the cruise  was a 
one day ride on a river with relatives.  And Lloyds has not provided any evidence  that Mrs L 
needed a large  overdraft  limit or saved  significant sums from the use of such.
I have found Mrs Ls testimony to be credible and consistent. In my view the PA was a 
substantial and expensive  product  and at the time of the sale I think  its more likely  than not 
that Lloyds had little evidence or reason to think that Mrs L would use very much of it or that 
it was suitable  for her. If she had wanted to get mobile phone insurance or home  emergency  
cover, the things  Lloyds has argued that she used, it could have advised her to buy these 
separately for a much lower cost. So I think its more  likely than not that Mrs L thought  she 
had to or ought  to take the PA based on what Lloyds said to her, but it was unsuitable  for 
her. 
So I think its more likely  than not that when Lloyds  recommended the PA to Mrs L in 2010, 
the PA was unsuitable for her and I think Mrs L lost out as a result.
putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank Plc to: 
Pay Mrs L the amount  Mrs L paid each month  for the PA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs L has saved money because of a better  rate on her overdraft by having the 
packaged account and Lloyds can show exactly how much Mrs L saved, it may deduct  
her savings  from the amount it pays her  but only after it has calculated the two points 
above. Lloyds  must  explain  clearly  and simply to Mrs L how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mrs L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
response to my provisional  decision
Neither party sent me any further  substantive comments by the date I set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent me any further substantive comments by the date I set, my conclusions  
remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
Ref: DRN90728083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and require Lloyds Bank  Plc to 
pay redress  to Mrs L as outlined in my provisional  putting things right paragraph above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9072808