K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the way Lloyds Bank  PLC has administered their mortgage.
In particular, they complain that:
Lloyds mis-sold the mortgage, as Mr and Mrs M specifically re-mortgaged to switch 
to repayment, but theyve since  discovered the mortgage is interest-only;
Lloyds didnt always keep them  informed  with statements of the account;
There have been administration errors  on the account, which  have led to refunds 
issued by Lloyds;
They were only notified  recently  that Lloyds expected a payment in full of the 
outstanding balance.
Overall Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  theyve been  left with an outstanding balance theyre 
being asked to pay.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs M re-mortgaged with Cheltenham & Gloucester, which has since been 
taken over by Lloyds. The mortgage  offers show the borrowing was taken  on an interest-only  
basis over a term of 11 years.
The mortgage term ended in 2010, but Mr and Mrs M have  continued to make payments to 
the account. Whilst Mr and Mrs M have reduced the balance through overpayments  over the 
years, a capital balance  of around £11,500  remains outstanding.
In 2018 Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs M asking for the outstanding balance  to be paid. Mr and 
Mrs M complained. They said they understood this was a repayment mortgage, and so were 
confused about why a lump sum was being requested  for the outstanding balance.  They  
also queried why the account was showing in arrears.
Lloyds clarified the account wasnt in arrears, but explained an error meant a payment had 
been allocated  to the wrong sub-account. So there  were arrears being incorrectly  reported. 
Lloyds said theyd rectified the error,  and arranged  for Mr and Mrs Ms credit  file to be 
updated to the correct  position. They offered Mr and Mrs M £400 for the inconvenience.
Lloyds said the documents  from the time the mortgage  was sold show that it was interest-
only. They  said in 2002 Mr and Mrs M requested  for the mortgage to be converted  to 
repayment, but then complained when it had been  changed. So the account was converted 
back to interest-only.  Lloyds said theyd sent Mr and Mrs M annual  statements which  
showed the mortgage was interest-only.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service. Lloyds didnt consent to us looking into 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  the sale of the mortgage. I issued a decision which said our 
service had no power to consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the mortgage 
as it had been made outside of the time limits.  I decided we could consider the other 
concerns Mr and Mrs M had raised.
Our investigator reviewed  Mr and Mrs Ms concerns,  but felt Lloyds had acted fairly. She was 
satisfied that it was clear  this was an interest-only mortgage, and that the balance  needed to 
be repaid. She was also satisfied that Lloyds  had put the account back  in the correct position  
following the administration error  in 2018. She recommended Mr and Mrs M speak with 
Ref: DRN98046172Lloyds about what they can afford to pay towards the mortgage so that an arrangement  
could be agreed.
Lloyds agreed  with the investigators outcome but Mr and Mrs M didnt. They still didnt think 
it was right that Lloyds  was asking for such a large  sum to repay the mortgage,  and theyre 
worried about the impact  this will have on their retirement plans. They asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  the complaint.
The case  has now been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account statements and administration
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they havent received mortgage statements from Lloyds, and 
so werent aware  their mortgage  balance wasnt reducing. This led to them  being shocked  
when Lloyds asked  them to repay  the whole outstanding balance  in 2018.
Lloyds have sent us copies of the annual mortgage  statements theyve sent to Mr and Mrs M 
since 2010. Im satisfied these were  correctly addressed to the mortgaged property, and so if 
these werent received  by Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded  this was due to an error made 
by Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also complained that Lloyds have made errors when administering the 
account, and so they dont trust that the outstanding balance is correct.  Lloyds have  sent our 
service a breakdown  of the account  transactions over the mortgage term. This shows  all 
payments made, the interest charged, any arrears on the account and the overall  balance  
over time. It also shows any adjustments made. Having reviewed the transaction  history,  Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  the outstanding balance Lloyds are now asking for is incorrect.
There was an adjustment  made in 2018 where an overpayment was applied  to the wrong  
sub-account. This had the impact  of showing one sub-account as in arrears  when it shouldnt 
have been. But Lloyds put things  right by adjusting all sub-accounts  to show the correct 
balance, they updated Mr and Mrs Ms credit  file, and paid them £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the mistake. Having considered everything, Im satisfied Lloyds 
have taken reasonable action to put things right, and theyve put the account  back  into the 
position it should have been  in.
Our service is an informal service and it is not our role to provide in depth audits of accounts.  
Having looked  at the way in which the mortgage  has operated, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that the balance  Lloyds are now asking for is incorrect.
End of term
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage term ended in 2010.  They  say they werent aware  that this 
mortgage was interest-only and were  shocked  to find they had an outstanding  balance left to 
pay in a lump sum. 
Ref: DRN98046173Ive looked at the contact history for this mortgage and I can see that since  2013, Mrs M has 
had several conversations  with the bank  about  the mortgage and the payments she and 
Mr M had been making. In 2014 specifically, she requested copies of the mortgage 
documentation and complained about the sale of the mortgage  as she was under the 
impression the mortgage was on repayment terms.
I also explained in my jurisdiction decision that I was satisfied Mr and Mrs M were  aware  this 
mortgage was interest-only in 2002  when they asked to switch  it to repayment, but then later 
changed their minds. So overall,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M knew their monthly payments 
were not reducing  the balance unless they were to overpay.
However, it is unusual  for a bank to accept the mortgage to run so far past its term without a 
formal extension or arrangement being agreed. Lloyds havent been  able to provide a record 
of any formal extensions  of the mortgage term. As Ive mentioned,  the contact notes do 
show that Mrs M was speaking to the bank about  the outstanding  balance in 2013  and 2014, 
and Lloyds did try to make an arrangement with Mrs M to reduce the balance. But a 
complaint was made and these conversations didnt get any further.
Lloyds have told us they didnt attempt  to collect the full balance  between 2014 and 2017 
due to a review that was being  carried out by the regulator on how banks were dealing  with 
arrears. Its not clear why this review would have prevented Lloyds from at least  having 
discussions with Mr and Mrs M about  what they could afford  to pay, and agree  a longer term 
plan. But this didnt  happen. And so it seems it was only in 2018 that Lloyds got back  in 
contact with Mr and Mrs M about  their plans  to repay the balance.
Since 2010, Mr and Mrs M have been making payments to the mortgage, with occasional 
overpayments. Due to the amount  of time Lloyds have allowed this to happen, and the lack 
of contact from 2014 onwards, I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs M may have been surprised 
when Lloyds were  asking them to repay the full balance in 2018.
Having said this, the outstanding balance does need to be repaid. Mr and Mrs M agreed to 
repay this mortgage  in full in 2010  and that hasnt  happened.  And as Ive said, Im satisfied  
the balance Lloyds are asking for is correct. 
Whilst Lloyds have  told Mr and Mrs M the full outstanding balance is now due, I cant see 
theyve insisted this needs to be repaid in one lump sum. Because  Mr and Mrs M made  a 
complaint, there havent been  discussions between them  and Lloyds about how this amount 
will be repaid. And once the complaint  was referred to our service, Lloyds put their 
collections activity on hold.
In relative terms, it is not a significantly large amount that Mr and Mrs M still need to pay. 
And whilst its in their best interests to repay the balance as soon  as theyre able,  I think it 
would be reasonable for Lloyds to agree a plan for this amount to be repaid rather than 
requiring the full balance immediately, unless Mr and Mrs M can pay this amount now.  I think 
the best way forward  is for Lloyds to conduct a full review of Mr and Mrs Ms income and 
expenditure to work out how they can repay this balance  in a way thats  affordable for them, 
without them needing to sell their home.
Im also sorry  to hear that both Mr and Mrs M are suffering  with ill health at the moment. 
When agreeing  a way forward  for collecting the mortgage balance, Lloyds should also take 
these circumstances  into account, as well as the impact  the pandemic is having  on their 
situation and their ability to pay.
Ref: DRN98046174my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 March  2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9804617