K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background and findings
My provisional decision dated  18 November 2019 is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In it I explained  that I was planning  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and gave time to 
both Provident  and Mrs W to respond to it. The reply  date of 2 December 2019 has passed.  
Mrs W is content with the provisional decision. I have not heard from Satsuma. 
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. So, I uphold  
Mrs Ws complaint.  
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs W paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about the loan from Mrs Ws credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Provident Personal Credit  Limited,  
trading as Satsuma,  needs to do as I have  said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95956192my provisional decision dated 18 November 2019
background
Mrs W had one loan of £1,000 approved for her to be repaid over twelve months from 8 February 
2018 at about £166 a month. It was repaid in January 2019. 
Satsuma has sent us records  to show that Mrs W had told it that she earned £1,500  at the time and 
had declared to Satsuma the following expenditure: mortgage/rent outgoings of £300,  other loans  of 
£200 and other expenses of £200. This added up to £800.
Satsuma has said that it used credit reference  agencies  (CRA) to retrieve detailed information  about  
existing financial/credit  commitments. It applied  extra safeguards and buffers once it had got the 
CRA information. It has explained that this translated into Mrs W having  the equivalent  of about £370  
disposable income  after adding  the safeguards and the new loan payments. Its explanation  and table  
is reproduced here: 
What affordability information our lending decision was based on:
Agreement Declared Disposable Income
Safeguards Monthly    Loan
RepaymentsDisposable   Income (After         additional safeguards)
*******48 £800.00 £429.47 £166.00 £370.53
The bureau  checks conducted  did not demonstrate  the loans  issued were  unaffordable or 
unsustainable at the time of the applications. Based on the above we are satisfied that we have 
followed a responsible lending process when  issuing the loans.
Satsuma has said to us that All accepted customers are within  our business  risk appetite.
I have seen from the Satsuma  records that Mrs W had applied for a loan with it in July 2015,  February  
2017 and May 2017 which were declined.  
Mrs W has said that at the time she already had various other  credit commitments with debts 
beginning to spiral out of control. She says proper  checks  would have revealed the problems which 
she says included:  other  payday lender  debts,  a debt management plan and mortgage arrears. 
Mrs W has given us evidence to show she had health problems which impacted on her work from 
around May 2017 to February 2019.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and thought  that Satsuma  did not need to put things 
right for Mrs W. She did not agree and after a second opinion from our adjudicator Mrs W asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. It was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  
practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mrs W could  repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN95956193But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include: where a 
customers income is particularly low; where  the repayments  are particularly high; and/or where the 
frequency of the loans  and the length of time over which a customer has been given loans need to be 
looked at: repeated  refinancing could signal  that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether Mrs 
W could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to 
repay without  undue difficulties.  In particular the customer should  be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments,  and without  having to borrow to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
will not be able to make their repayments sustainably  if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
The proportionate checks I would  have  expected Satsuma to undertake for a new customer applying 
for a first loan usually would be for it to know the applicants income and expenditure. This loan for 
Mrs W was for £1,000 and Mrs Ws declared information  has been set out in the background section 
and I do not repeat it here. 
But in addition to knowing Mrs Ws income and expenditure, Satsuma  carried  out a credit  check for 
Mrs W and had information  in its own records that it had declined three earlier applications from her. I 
appreciate that these  declines were  sometime before February 2018 (the most  recent one being  May 
2017) so I do not think that these  alone ought to have  prompted additional  checks. What I do think is 
the cumulative  nature  of the information I can see that Satsuma had in February 2018 leads me to 
think more should have been  checked.   
I note that Satsumas own credit search results  must  have alerted  it to something of concern  as it has 
explained that it increased Mrs Ws assumed  expenditure figure by a further £429. That represented a 
greater than 50% increase in Mrs Ws own declared expenditure.  I have not seen the full results of the 
Satsuma check. So although  this was a first loan I would have expected Satsuma to have carried out 
more checks to ensure  that Mrs W was in a position to repay the loan. A credit worthiness 
assessment is borrower  focussed and an assessment of the risk to the borrower. So Satsuma  may 
have concluded that Mrs W came within its own business risk appetite but that is not the CONC 
requirement. 
The personal  credit file I have seen dated September 2018 gives me a fairly good idea as to what a 
Satsuma credit search was likely to have shown. I think that the increase Satsuma  made  to Mrs Ws 
expenditure figure likely resulted from seeing the outstanding loans  Mrs W had at the time.  But in 
addition I do not think that the mortgage arrears  Mrs W has mentioned and had been recorded on her 
personal credit file could be ignored.  And I find it unlikely that the credit searches  Satsuma carried out 
would not have revealed these as the arrears  were recorded for all of 2017. 
So in these  very particular circumstances surrounding Mrs Ws application I think that Satsuma ought  
to have carried out a full financial review of Mrs Ws finances before approving  this 12 month loan for 
£1,000.
Ref: DRN95956194I have seen the bank account statements  for the relevant  periods  leading up to the application by Mrs 
W. She had a joint account  with her husband and two personal accounts. I can see a number of 
returned cheques, payments  to other lenders, transfers between accounts and generally  the picture of 
a person juggling finances  and debt. This is further substantiated by what  she has told us. 
Satsuma has relied on the fact that it did feel it was warranted to increase her declared expenditure  
figure because of the results it got from doing a credit search. And that, plus what  I have seen and 
heard from Mrs W, leads me to think that a full review of her finances would have been justified and 
proportionate.
I do not think  Satsuma did that full review and if it had, I think Satsuma  as a responsible lender  would 
have realised it was not the right thing to lend Mrs W £1,000 and add to her debt issues in February 
2018. 
I am planning  to uphold this loan complaint.  
end of extract
Ref: DRN9595619