K820x#14Complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc declined  her mortgage application. And says it has 
placed a marker  against her name which is stopping her from obtaining another mortgage.
Background
In January 2019, Ms M applied for a mortgage  with Santander via a broker.  In March  2019, 
after reviewing Ms Ms application, Santander  said it couldnt offer her a mortgage.
Ms M says her mortgage broker explained that the reason  the application was declined  was 
because there was an adverse marker  against  her name. She wants  Santander to remove  
the markers  and explain why it wont  offer her a mortgage. 
Santander said its decision  was based on its lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Ms Ms application failed Santanders 
internal lending criteria  and credit checks.  Ms M disagreed. She wants Santander to approve 
her application  and reimburse  her for solicitors costs. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly  in accordance  with the banks lending  
criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public.  Also, generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial  
judgement on who it decides to lend money, and I see no reason to depart from that position 
here. 
Like all lenders, Santander considers information and evidence it receives in respect of a 
mortgage application. It carries out its standard underwriting checks  to try to confirm the 
accuracy of what its told and to decide  whether it wants to lend.  A lender has to look at all 
the information about a consumer and decide  if its willing to grant  the mortgage by reference 
to its lending criteria.  And in this case,  I can see, having completed its checks, that Ms M 
didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. So, it wasnt willing to offer Ms M a mortgage.
Its important to note that theres no obligation to lend  and theres no obligation  to give 
reasons for a refusal either. So, whilst I appreciate  Ms M would like this information,  I cant 
say Santander  has done anything wrong by not providing an explanation for its decision.
I know Ms M feels  Santander treated her unfairly  when it declined  her mortgage application. 
But ultimately the decision it reached  was one that broadly reflected its lending  criteria. Just 
because Santander  wasnt  willing  to lend to Ms M doesnt mean  Santander was at fault 
because it wasnt. 
Ref: DRN95346212Ms M says Santander applied adverse  markers  against her name, which  has led another 
bank to turn down  her subsequent mortgage  application. But this isnt supported  by the 
evidence. I say this because Santander  hasnt  recorded any markers against Ms M which 
would impact a mortgage application process.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9534621