K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  in 2004.
background
The PPI policy was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment Protection policy  (TMPP).    A 
TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes PPI together  with other  features, 
such as life insurance and critical illness cover. The individual elements  of the cover can be 
added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  is about  the PPI element of the TMPP. So this decision relates  
solely to the PPI part of the policy. The PPI covered Mr R only against  accident, sickness 
and unemployment.  If hed made  a successful claim, the PPI policy  wouldve covered          
the mortgage repayments for up to 24 months.
Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold many years  ago so it isnt surprising that Halifax doesnt  have copies  of 
all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  that memories  can 
fade over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory, I make  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs R increased  their borrowing in 2006  and increased the PPI 
cover at the same time. 
The premiums for the TMPP policy were  taken separately to the mortgage payments by 
direct debit. And the policy  was in force until 2014.  If Mr and Mrs R didnt want the cover or 
thought they didnt need it Id expect them to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that they did.
So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs R were told they had a 
choice about whether  to buy the policy or not, and they chose to take it.
Halifax says its adviser  wouldve recommended  that Mr and Mrs R buy the policy. So Halifax 
had a duty to make  sure it was right for them. And from what Ive seen I think it was.
Ref: DRN94306772The PPI covered Mr R and he seems to have been eligible for the policy. He wasnt  affected 
by anything the policy didnt cover such as unusual employment conditions. Mr R did have a 
medical condition  at the time but I dont think it would have meant he wouldnt have  been  
able to claim if he became  unwell.
Mr R has told us he wouldve received full sick pay from his employer for up to six months if 
he was unable to work.  And this would be followed by a period of half pay if he still couldnt 
return to work. But this particular PPI policy  couldve paid Mr R a benefit for up to 24 months  
in addition to any sick pay. So if Mr R had become unwell I think he wouldve  found the 
policy useful, particularly  if he was unable to work for a prolonged spell.
The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if Mr R lost his job. Although  Mr R 
may have  got some  redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow him to use any 
redundancy pay or savings towards  other living costs. 
Mr and Mrs R have said they could  rely on Mr Rs parents to help them  if things went wrong.  
But this type of help isnt guaranteed and although  Mr Rs parents may have wanted to help, 
they may not have been in a position to do so when Mr R needed  it most.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs R, Halifax also had to give them  
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs R all the information it shouldve. And Mr R 
has said the paperwork was detailed and confusing. Mr R has also told us his medical 
condition may have meant Halifax didnt explain the policy to him as well as it could have.
But from what Ive seen  the policy was right for Mr R and I think its likely  Mr and Mrs R were 
interested in this type of cover. The cost of the policy  seems  to have been comparable  to 
other, similar policies on the market at the time,  and Ive not seen anything  to make me think  
the premiums were not affordable.  So even  if Halifax had given  Mr and Mrs R all the clear 
information about the policy and the premiums that it should  have, I still think theyd have 
bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs R 
chose to buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended a policy  that was right for Mr R, and I dont  
think any clearer information wouldve made them change  their mind about applying  for the 
policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ref: DRN94306773ombudsman
Ref: DRN9430677