K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont meet  a claim he made on 
his home  insurance  for water damage.
background 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in January. A copy is attached and forms 
part of this decision.
I said I thought Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld  in part. In summary  I said I thought Ageas 
should pay Mr Bs claim insofar  as it related to the damage in the bathroom, but not the 
damage caused separately  in the bedroom.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision.
Ageas sent us a comprehensive  response. The first part (in summary) repeats its original 
argument that the room is a wet room   regardless of what  Mr B calls it  and that the poor 
construction meant the leak could cause  damage. Thats not new evidence,  and I looked at 
this point in my provisional  decision, when I pointed out that there  was no exclusion for poor 
workmanship in the escape of water part of the policy.
Ageas acknowledges theres  no exclusion  for poor workmanship in the relevant part of the 
policy. But it says that this workmanship has led to damage building up gradually  which  is 
excluded.
To support this argument  Ageas sent us part of a policy document.  Theres  no indication  its 
the actual policy Mr B has, but as the content is the same as one sent earlier   which  it said 
was a sample of the policy he does have, Ill accept its relevant. Ageas says applying the 
terms and conditions in two paragraphs its identified in the policy means it shouldnt have to 
meet Mr Bs claim.
The first part of the policy Ageas refers to is about  escape of water  claims. Ageas quotes, 
as things it doesnt have to pay for, loss  or damage to property that happens gradually over 
a period of time, such as corrosion  or rusting,  sulphate reacting with any material from 
which the property  is built.
Im not persuaded this is relevant. It seems to me that the normal interpretation of this 
sentence is to exempt Ageas from paying for damage to structural items  bricks or metal  
supports for example   that might be caused  by a leak or flood over a very long period of 
time. 
I dont think that applies  to Mr B, as his claim isnt about one of these conditions. His claim 
is for damage caused by a leak under his bath. 
Ref: DRN99756292The second  of the paragraph  referred  to is about exceptions to section 11 of the policy.  It 
says Ageas need not pay for damage  that builds up gradually. But Section 11 is about 
Mr Bs personal possessions, described  elsewhere as clothing,  personal belongings and 
high risk items Mr B might carry around  with him. I dont think  this is relevant to Mr Bs 
current claim.
Finally Ageas goes  on to say that if Mr B had stopped using  the bath, as he says he did, the 
damage wouldnt be so severe. It hasnt  provided any evidence  to support this comment.
Overall Im not persuaded  by Ageas  reasons for not meeting Mr Bs claim.
Mr B has expressed a preference that Ageas settle this claim in cash.  Ill leave to Mr B and 
Ageas to sort that out, but Id remind Mr B that under the paragraph headed Claims 
Settlement for sections  1 and 2 (which  covers this claim) it says Ageas need  only pay for 
necessary repair  or replacement. So thats  enough  payment  to return his bathroom to the 
condition it was in before the leak.
Neither party has commented on my suggested level of compensation, so I see no need  to 
alter the amount from £350.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Ageas Insurance  Limited to meet 
the part of Mr Bs claim that relates  to the damage  in the bathroom  and also pay him £350 
compensation for the way its handled  his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99756293Copy of provisional  decision January 2019
complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont meet a claim he made on his home 
insurance for water damage.
background
Mr B went into his spare bedroom  and realised  the carpet was wet. When  he investigated he 
discovered damage to the floor and walls. He explored further and found  there was also water 
damage in the adjacent bathroom.  He thought the two issues might be linked and contacted  Ageas.
Ageas agreed to consider his claim.  Initially  it asked Mr B to provide quotes for repairs,  which he 
did. When Ageas saw how much it might cost to repair the damage it appointed someone to 
assess the damage and its cause or causes.
Various tests were  carried out. The subsequent report said the window  in the bedroom  wasnt 
properly fitted and was letting in rainwater. Ageas said it wouldnt meet this part of Mr Bs claim  for 
two reasons  first that the damage was the result of poor workmanship, and second that it was 
something that had been going on for some time and Mr B should have noticed  the damage earlier 
than he did. Mr B seems to have accepted that.
Ageas says it wont meet  the claim for the water damage in the bathroom either. It said initially that 
although the problem  was traced to a leaking waste pipe under the bath, the bathroom hadnt 
been well designed  as it wasnt fully tiled under the bath  nor around the edges where  the bath 
met the floor.  It said there were some problems  with grout too. It thinks these  factors  enabled the 
damage to occur. There was also a discussion  about  whether  Mr B had asked a plumber  to fix a 
leak some  time ago. That didnt provide any answers either way.
Mr B says Ageas hasnt been fair. He says the room was rarely used and wasnt designed as a wet 
room, even if the surveyor did think that. He says the bath was sealed  but that had been 
removed to fix the pipe.  Furthermore he says he and his family were  careful, and there was never  
enough water on the floor from splashing  etc to cause  damage.
Mr B complained  to Ageas but it hasnt changed its mind. So he brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  and in summary said he agreed with Ageas,  as he thought 
the design/installation had contributed to the problem.
He did think Ageas  had given Mr B some incorrect information and thought that warranted
£100 compensation. Ageas  agreed with that, but Mr B remains  unhappy so Ive been asked to 
decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has dealt with Mr Bs claim as two separate incidents and declined both. So there are two 
main parts to Mr Bs complaint and, like Ageas, Ill deal with them separately.
Ref: DRN99756294the damage to the bedroom
Mr B appears to have  accepted Ageas explanation of why it wont meet  this part of his claim. 
For completeness  Ill comment briefly on what Ive seen.
The room in question  is on the ground floor, and has what look like floor to ceiling windows
or doors.  The first report from Ageas  surveyor concluded rainwater was getting in. A second survey 
said the windows  hadnt been sealed properly. The surveyor  sprayed the windows using a hosepipe 
and saw that water was getting  in. That isnt something Id expect to see if the windows were 
properly fitted, and supports the conclusion  that the windows werent sealed  properly.
Ageas says also that there  was no damp proof course found. I cant see that the surveyor made  any 
special effort to check for one of these  he simply said he hadnt seen one, and that the outside of 
the building was covered in cladding which  might  have  let water in. I dont think  this is material if the 
windows were  already identified as the main problem.
Ive thought about whether Ageas could  have  considered  Mr Bs claim under the accidental 
damage part of his policy, but this does contain an exclusion for poor workmanship. I think  that 
includes windows fitted in such a way as to allow water in from outside.
Im currently  satisfied Ageas  treated Mr B fairly when  it said it wouldnt meet this part of his claim.
the damage to the bathroom
The first surveyor who visited described the room  as a wet room.  That suggests it should have 
been designed and installed so that any free water  generally that from a shower not enclosed  in a 
shower cubicle  safely drains away. The photos  of the room do show a shower with no cubicle  and 
a drain in the floor.
Mr B, however, says the room was never meant to be a wet room. He says the bath was used 
occasionally and that the shower has never been used. I dont have  any reason to doubt  Mr Bs 
word for this. From the photos Ive seen, so long as the bath was properly  sealed  to the floor tiles 
there shouldnt have  been  a problem  with water getting under the
bath from the shower  area (if it had been used) and potentially damaging the wooden floor 
beneath the tiles.
Ageas has given several reasons for not meeting Mr Bs claim.
It said initially that the bath wasnt sealed properly to the floor, and also that there should  have been 
a smaller gap (or no gap) in the tiling under the bath in the area around the waste pipe. It said this 
was evidence of poor workmanship/design and Mr Bs policy excludes  cover in these circumstances.
It has also recently said that there wasnt a leak and then went  on to say it wouldnt meet  the claim 
because Mr Bs policy excludes damage caused by failed grout or sealant. That exclusion is in the 
part of the policy headed  Escape of water which includes in its definition (I paraphrase  here) 
leaking pipes. That would  include waste pipes.
Ageas also says it has concerns over the fact that Mr B cant provide much detail  about 
whether he had a leak fixed some time ago in the bathroom.
Mr B says the seal on the bath was removed  to allow  a plumber to fix the leaking waste pipe. That 
seems reasonable to me  I cant see any other way of reaching the pipe than moving  the bath which  
would disturb  the sealant.  And, given  there was further repair work  to do to
the floor,  I wouldnt  expect Mr B to replace that immediately  especially  if, as he says, hes 
stopped using  the room  to prevent further damage.
Ref: DRN99756295Mr B also says he might have asked his plumber   who was at his home  for other reasons   to look 
at a potential leak in the bathroom some time ago, but he isnt an expert and doesnt know if the 
plumber did anything.
I dont currently think  Ageas is treating Mr B fairly. Ill explain why.
Ageas sent a specialist out to find out exactly where  the leak was coming from. The surveyor seems 
to have carried out a lot of tests, including dye testing pipework for leaks.  For most  of the tests no 
leaks were  found. The surveyor does say:
We then proceeded to dye test the waste pipes from the bath in the bathroom and 
observe d water /dye escaping from the bath waste connection  under  the bath
I think theres  enough evidence to show there was a leak when Mr B made his claim, albeit one that 
only occurred when the bath was being used. That suggests  the relevant part of the policy  to apply  
to Mr Bs claim is the one about escape of water as this includes  water leaking  from pipes. There  is 
no exclusion for poor design or workmanship under this insured event. In these circumstances 
Ageas arguments about whether or not the room is a wet room or the extent of tiling fall away.  And 
without an exclusion  for poor workmanship, I dont think whether Mr Bs plumber fixed an earlier  leak 
is relevant.
Ageas also wants to refuse the claim because it says the grout and/or sealant failed, and that is 
excluded in Mr Bs policy in the escape of water  section. If Ageas  wants to apply an exclusion in 
order to avoid  paying a claim then the onus is on Ageas to show why the exclusion applies.  Ageas 
points to some missing grout in the floor tiles. Theres a photo of a small  (about 2 cm) piece of 
missing grout and another of what looks like a loose tile against  a wall. I dont know which part of 
the room either  of those photos was taken in, nor if theyre a contributory factor  to the damage.  And 
I cant say when grout came out  it could have been missing  all along  or come loose because of 
the leak.  Im not currently persuaded this is enough for me to conclude the exclusion applies.
Ageas also told us that another section of the policy included an exclusion  for poor workmanship 
and/or design. That part of the policy  is about  damage caused by subsidence. Theres been no 
suggestion this is the cause of the damage, so I dont think it relevant  to Mr Bs claim.
putting things right
I currently think Ageas should meet Mr Bs claim  for the damage to his bathroom,  and return it to the 
condition it was in before  the leak occurred.
Our investigator suggested  Ageas pay Mr B £100 compensation  because  it gave him some  
incorrect information during  the claim  process. I think thats fair, and Ageas agreed to pay that.
However, I also currently think  Ageas  has put Mr B to considerable trouble by rejecting his claim  
unfairly. I must also tell Mr B that this service  doesnt penalise businesses for making mistakes,  nor 
pay customers a day rate for time they might spend dealing with a claim.  Taking everything into 
account Im intending to increase the amount paid by £250  to compensate Mr B for the trouble and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold this complaint and instruct Ageas Insurance  Limited to meet  the part 
of Mr Bs claim that relates to the damage in the bathroom and pay him £350 compensation  for the 
way its handled his claim.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9975629