K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 2009, Halifax  sold Mr and Mrs M a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if Mr M was unable to work  because of unemployment. It was sold as 
part of a package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan  (TMPP).
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as life and 
critical illness cover, which could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt still have  all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. But 
its provided screenshots from its computer systems that show that Mr and Mrs M answered 
a number of questions about  their personal circumstances which  related to the sale of PPI 
cover. And the paperwork they were  sent  albeit just after the sale  refers to them as 
having chosen to take optional PPI to cover  unemployment and not disability.  
So it seems  as if PPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs M at the time. And, from what  I know  of 
Halifaxs sales processes  then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this cover 
without first explaining that it was optional and getting their agreement  to take it.
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. That meant Halifax needed  to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, from what Mr and Mrs M have told us about their circumstances, Mr M was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for either. And I cant see that theyd have found the monthly  premium  
unaffordable. 
It seems  as though Mr M was entitled  to enhanced  sick pay from his employer for a time. But 
the PPI was set up to cover him for unemployment only.  It potentially paid out for up to 12 
months for each successful claim and would have allowed  Mr and Mrs M to either  retain the 
savings theyd built up or use them towards their other living  costs  if Mr M wasnt  working.  
Considering Mr and Mrs M had entered into a long-term financial  commitment that was 
secured against  their home, I think theyd have  valued the extra  security  the PPI provided. 
Ref: DRN90712272Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs M enough  information about the PPI to allow them to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information it gave 
them could have  been better  than it was. But, for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  
the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed 
their decision  to take it. I think they would still have thought it gave them a useful benefit at 
an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mr M have  lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9071227