K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc, trading  as Post Office,  will not refund a disputed 
transaction.
background
In November 2018, Mrs W spoke  to the Post Office  about a transaction  on her account 
which she did not recognise.  It was a withdrawal of £300.  She  said she had no reason to 
withdraw such a large sum and neither had not authorised anyone else to do so.
The Post Office looked into her complaint but concluded that it was going  to hold Mrs W 
liable for the transaction.   In its final response, it told her why  and offered £60 by way of 
compensation for poor service and for costs  of telephone calls.
Mrs W did not accept its offer.  She brought her complaint  to this service  and asked that we 
look into matters for her.
Our investigator spoke  to the Post Office.  He  gathered details of the transaction as well as 
information on Mrs Ws account.   He concluded  he could not ask the Post Office  to do 
anymore.
But Mrs W insisted  that she had not made  the transaction  and asked that an ombudsman  
review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I dont  
think I can uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My reasons  are very much  the same as the investigator  and he has explained them in 
detail to Mrs W already.  I know she doesnt accept  what he says, but based on the 
evidence, I cant see that the Post Office has done  anything wrong in holding Mrs W liable 
for the money.
The withdrawal is not that unusual with Mrs Ws previous use of the account.  It was carried  
out in her local, and regular,  branch  and the money was withdrawn  using her genuine  card 
and PIN.
Mrs W has confirmed  that she has not given her card to anyone and has not shared her PIN.
So, on the basis on what I have  seen, it is difficult to say that this money was withdrawn by 
anyone other than Mrs W  and I therefore  cannot uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ref: DRN95236362Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9523636