K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G)  unreasonably increased 
the cost of his unemployment insurance policy without telling him.
background
In 2012, Mr B took out an unemployment insurance  policy with L&G. The policy would pay 
him £1,000  monthly benefit for up to twelve months if he were to be made  involuntarily  
unemployed. The policy premium was £15.90 a month,  which Mr B paid by direct debit.
In 2018, Mr B realised  that the cost of the policy had risen to £68 a month.  He cancelled the 
policy and complained to L&G that he hadnt  been  made aware of this increase over the 
years. He asked for a refund of premiums.
L&G didnt uphold  his complaint. It said it had written to Mr B each year to tell him what the 
cost of the cover would be.
Mr B complained to us. He said he hadnt received any correspondence  from L&G since  hed 
first taken out the policy.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that the renewal  premiums had been calculated  fairly and that L&G had made Mr B aware 
each year of the change  in cost.
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He didnt understand why the premium should 
have risen to the extent  it had. He disputed that hed received  any renewal letters  from L&G. 
He thought that L&G should have obtained his specific agreement  to such significant  
increases in the premium rather than assumed that he was content to renew on these terms. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere. 
L&G has provided an explanation of how it calculated Mr Bs premium each year. I cant fully 
share this with him because it contains  commercially  sensitive information. However, I can 
tell him that L&G conducted a review in 2014 which concluded that the price of the policy 
didnt adequately reflect the risk. This led to significant increases  in the following two years. 
L&G has nonetheless  said that Mr B was never  charged more at renewal than the new 
business rate and in some years was charged  less than this amount. Im satisfied from the 
evidence provided  that, despite the significant  increases, L&G calculated  Mr Bs premium  
accurately and fairly each year.
Ref: DRN97530902When the policy was taken out, L&G wrote  to Mr B to explain that the policy  would 
automatically renew each  year and the appropriate  amount would be taken from his account  
unless he told it otherwise. It has provided  copies of the renewal documents  which it says 
were sent each year to Mr B. These documents clearly outline the cost of the policy for the 
forthcoming year. It is unfortunate if Mr B says he didnt either receive or read these but I see 
no reason to doubt that they were sent to Mr Bs address. Im therefore satisfied that L&G 
took adequate steps to make Mr B aware of the cost of the policy and it was up to him to 
contact L&G if he was unhappy with this.
I acknowledge that Mr B may not have continued with the policy if he had realised how much  
it had increased in cost but Im satisfied that L&G acted fairly  and that it wasnt required to 
gain fresh consent from him each year before increasing the premium. I therefore  see no 
grounds for saying L&G should refund Mr Bs premiums. 
  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9753090