K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined a claim made  on his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mr P contacted AXA in September 2017 to register a claim under his buildings  insurance. 
There was a problem  with subsidence  damage  to his conservatory  and he asked AXA to 
repair this through  his insurance. He said this had first been noticed a year earlier but he 
decided not to contact AXA about it until 2016.
AXA sent its appointed expert to validate the claim, based on its assessment  they didnt 
believe the damage was covered under Mr Ps policy. They  felt the original  building  work 
hadnt been completed correctly and the foundations for the conservatory were too shallow. 
AXA said it excluded damage  which was the result  of defective design  or faulty  workmanship  
and declined  the claim because of this.
Mr P didnt think AXA had highlighted this exclusion sufficiently. He felt it should have been 
drawn to his attention as he saw it as a significant  unusual exception.  AXA in its response  to 
the complaint  didnt  agree. It said exclusions for defective design are standard and form part 
of the exclusion  for faulty workmanship. It didnt consider this onerous  or unusual and that it 
is a common exclusion which it was reasonable to rely on and apply.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ps complaint and said he didnt think  AXA had done anything 
wrong. He said he didnt agree the exclusion relied  on was onerous  or unusual  its 
common to all home insurance policies and he felt it was unlikely that Mr P would be able to 
find a policy  without this exclusion.
He felt the application of the exclusion was fair too. Hes considered  the engineers report  
(the expert appointed) to test the ground when the claim was made. He said this showed the 
ground it was built on was made ground and because of this the foundations should have 
been deeper and wider  than they were  to allow for the natural  clay below. As this hadnt  
happened he was happy the design  and workmanship was faulty and AXA had acted fairly 
when it relied on the exclusion.
Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.
Mr Ps policy  details  the exclusion for faulty  workmanship,  defective design or use of 
defective materials on page  14 of the policy booklet. This is within  the section titled  What is 
not covered and is the first point at which the policy talks about  the exclusions  within  it. This 
is, as our investigator has said, a common exclusion and it would be unusual  to find a 
buildings insurance  policy that doesnt include this exclusion. 
Ref: DRN92582572AXA detailed the cover provided  in the policy booklet and made it clear what was and wasnt 
covered. Faulty design  or workmanship is a common exclusion that can be expected  within 
buildings insurance  policies. And I dont think AXA has failed in highlighting this term to Mr P.
Ive considered whether AXA has applied this exclusion fairly when using this to decline 
Mr Ps claim. 
Its worth  noting that conservatories  dont usually need planning permission  or building 
control sign off. As a result there isnt anything from when Mr Ps conservatory was built to 
show it met any of these standards and this isnt unusual.  So  it is likely  the site conditions 
and ground werent  given  the same consideration as they were when the foundations for the 
house were laid.
Mr P hasnt provided anything to contradict  the evidence provided by AXA for the cause of 
the movement  which  describes  the conservatory being  built on made ground. Nor has he 
been able to provide anything which indicated the completion of the conservatory and any 
warrant or assurance on its build quality   although  I note this was part of the property when  
he purchased it. So Ive had to rely on the engineers  report  provided by AXA as the expert 
opinion on the likely  cause of the movement.  The report  includes the following:
The underside of the foundation is 500mm  below ground level and bears onto made ground 
which consists of soft mid brown/grey silty sandy clay with occasional gravel and brick 
pieces, this carried onto a depth  of 1200mm at which  point he borehole  was terminated due 
to an obstruction
Based on the information from the site investigation  I can confirm the damage is being  
caused by consolidation of the weak soils beneath the conservatory foundations. The 
foundations should have  been at the same depth  as the main  house foundation and they 
should have been designed wider than normal to accommodate the moist  soft clay of the 
natural ground  found at 1100mm
AXA hasnt said the conservatory wasnt built in line with planning permission or building  
control as this wasnt needed.  But it has highlighted  what it considers to be errors in the 
design of the conservatory foundations.  I think it is clear the ground  beneath  the foundations 
was made with a mixture of broken  brick and gravel within it before the natural soil type 
was reached.  And I think this would have  been  visible when the foundations were dug before 
the concrete was laid.
For comparison AXAs engineer also dug a bore hole to test the foundations of the house  
and their depth. This showed the house to be on foundations  of 1100mm sitting  on top of the 
natural clay beneath.
With the ground clearly  being made  immediately  beneath the surface,  I think it would have 
been reasonable to consider this when designing the foundations  for the conservatory. And 
comparing the depth of the main house  would have been a fair comparison  as this sits on 
the same  soil. 
It doesnt appear the foundations for the conservatory have  been  laid deep enough to allow  
for the soil type and the natural clay below. I think there is fault with the design of the 
foundations and Im satisfied that AXA has fairly relied on its exclusion for faulty 
workmanship or design. 
Ref: DRN92582573Mr P hasnt provided anything to contradict  this evidence  or to show that it was built without 
fault in the design. So in the absence  of this and for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
wont be asking AXA to do anymore  with Mr Ps claim.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258257