K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited,  
under which a car was supplied to her, was misrepresented  to her.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs D under  a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that she signed in September 2018. She had approached it because shed heard 
an advert which referred to a £6,000  deposit contribution and she wanted to take advantage  
of that offer.  She says that the salesman confirmed that she would get that contribution.  But, 
after signing  the agreement, she says that she discovered that shed only received  a £3,000 
deposit contribution.  
She complained to BMW  Financial Services. It said that there was no evidence  that shed 
been offered a £6,000  advance payment.  But Mrs D wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
agreement clearly states that the cash price of the car is £24,547.20 and the advance  
payment is £3,000. So she couldnt say that BMW  Financial  Services  had mis-sold the car to 
Mrs D or treated her unfairly.
Mrs D has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She accepts that 
she signed all of the documents without looking into the details - which is her fault. But she 
says that BMW Financial Services didnt explain the agreement to her carefully and played  
with words to confuse her which  isnt acceptable.  She says that she signed everything based 
on trust and the salesmans confirmation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says that she approached the dealer because shed  heard  an advert which  offered a 
£6,000 deposit contribution and she wanted to take advantage  of that offer. And she says 
that the salesman confirmed that she would receive  a £6,000  deposit  contribution.  But 
theres no other evidence  to show that Mrs D was offered a £6,000 deposit contribution 
towards the car that was supplied to her or that the salesman said that she would receive 
such a contribution.
The documentary evidence that is available shows that a £3,000 deposit contribution was 
made. Mrs D signed an explanation  document  and the hire purchase agreement in 
September 2018. By signing the explanation  document she confirmed:
 receipt of the written explanation and pre-contract credit information  as stated 
above.
And immediately under  her signature on the hire purchase agreement it says:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Ref: DRN94239992Mrs D accepts that she signed the documents  without reading them in detail. But they are 
legal contracts and I consider it to be reasonable to expect Mrs D to have read the 
documents before signing them and she had the option to not sign them if she didnt agree 
with them  or didnt want to be bound by their terms.
The explanation document, pre-contract credit information and hire purchase agreement  
clearly set out the terms to which Mrs D was agreeing. The cash price of the car was 
£24,547.20 and there  was an advance payment (the deposit contribution)  of £3,000 so the 
amount of credit was £21,547.20.  The total amount payable was £25,712.98  which was 
repayable by 47 payments of £286.22  and an optional  final repayment of £9,260.64. The 
interest rate was 1.9% APR. 
None of those  documents  refer to a deposit contribution of £6,000. And whilst Mrs D may 
have been expecting that contribution Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that it was ever offered to her in connection with the car that was being  supplied to her. 
Nor am I persuaded  that the agreement  was misrepresented to Mrs D. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  BMW 
Financial Services to allow Mrs D to reject  the car, to change her payments under the 
agreement to to take any other action in response  to her complaint. If Mrs D is experiencing 
financial difficulties and is unable  to make the monthly payments to BMW  Financial Services, 
I suggest that she contacts it and explains  her difficulties.  Its required  to respond to any 
financial difficulties that shes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423999