K822xcomplaint
Mr J has complained about A J Bell Management  Limited. He believes that he wasnt  offered 
an alternative to his existing stockbrokers account  when it was withdrawn from his SIPP, and 
he believes  A J Bell should  have  informed him sooner  of the impending change. Because of 
A J Bell's delays, Mr J says he was unable to invest  funds as he would  have liked and he 
should be compensated for his lost investment  opportunity.
background 
Mr J had a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP)  which  was administered by A J Bell. The 
product was designed to be used with a financial  adviser. Within  the SIPP,  Mr J also had a 
Pension Trader Account (PTA) with another  provider. He used  the PTA to buy and sell 
investments. Sometime in 2017,  the PTA provider  decided  to withdraw the PTA.  Mr J says 
he was first informed about this in July 2017 when the PTA provider wrote to him directly.
It appears that it was explained that the PTA would be closed and Mr J had one month to 
find a replacement. Mr J and his adviser discussed this and chose an alternative.  A J Bell 
initially said this alternative  PTA would  be suitable  to open within Mr Js SIPP. However, this 
didnt happen  as the new provider didnt agree with A J Bells terms and its requirements on 
an investment declaration.
So there was no new PTA and Mr Js funds  remained in cash.  Mr J then opened a separate 
General Investment Account  (GIA) to transfer in the assets held within  his PTA. This was 
completed in specie although  it took seven weeks to complete, arriving  in January 2018.
The SIPP account  continued to accumulate  cash because  Mr J held a rental  property and 
the rent was paid into the SIPP. Mr J contacted A J Bell in March  2018 by email  and asked 
about the availability of their trading  platform,  Investcentre. He was told it wasn't available  to 
him as he didnt have  an A J Bell SIPP, just the GIA.
Then in May 2018 Mr J was told that, in agreement with his SIPP provider, his SIPP would 
be closed and that his holdings would  be transferred  to A J Bells Investcentre  SIPP.  The 
transfer would also allow Mr J to open an execution only service  (XO) which  he had enquired 
about some  months  before.
Mr J decided to go ahead  and the A J Bell SIPP was opened in July 2018, with the funds 
from his GIA being transferred back to the A J Bell SIPP. When it closed the GIA in August 
2018, A J Bell made an error which resulted  in Mr J not having online access  to the SIPP 
account. This wasnt resolved until October  2018.
Mr J complained about these issues but A J Bell didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it 
wasn't their fault that the PTA service was withdrawn or that the alternative PTA wasn't 
opened. It also said that the in-specie  transfer took seven weeks  and this was within  normal 
industry timeframes.
A J Bell apologised for cutting Mr Js online access and offered £75 (later increased to £125)  
for the inconvenience  caused by this. It said that this lack of access  had not delayed Mr J in 
making execution  only trades. Any delay there was because it required a new account within 
the SIPP to be opened and an application hadnt  been completed. Mr J completed the 
execution only account form and was able to make trades in January 2019. 
Ref: DRN99282822Mr J referred his complaint to this service. He said that he had over £90,000 in cash  in his 
SIPP which he hadn't been  able to invest,  and he said he would have been able to earn a 
return of around 5 per cent from August 2017 to January 2019.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He wasnt satisfied that A J Bell was at fault for the failure to set up the alternative  
PTA. The new provider  couldnt commit to A J Bells terms. A GIA was opened to receive Mr 
Js PTA assets but cash built up in the SIPP account separately which Mr J was unable to 
invest personally. The adjudicator explained  that this was primarily because  the SIPP didnt 
have the product range to facilitate Mr Js wishes. But this wasnt  A J Bell's  fault, and it 
hadnt been its decision to withdraw  the PTA account. 
The adjudicator also noted that whilst  there had been discussions about the XO account 
being made available, A J Bell were  not under any obligation to provide this service  and it 
was Mr Js decision to stay with A J Bell and not transfer away.  Mr J did accept the offer to 
transfer to the A J Bell SIPP in May 2018.  This meant he could open the XO account and 
trade the cash in his SIPP.  However this required Mr Js advisor to complete a separate  
application form to open the account.
So the adjudicator didnt  feel that A J Bell had prevented Mr J trading before his SIPP 
migrated to it. After that, Mr J could have  completed the application  with his financial advisor.
A J Bell did lock Mr J out of his SIPP account  during 2018,  but the adjudicator didnt think  
that this impacted on Mr Js ability to trade  as the XO account wasnt open by then so no 
trades could have been made.
And ultimately, the adjudicator noted that Mr J could  have invested his funds at any time 
from August 2017 to January 2019 though his financial adviser. Whilst that wasnt  his 
preference, he could have done but chose not to.
So the adjudicator felt that the offer of £125 was fair.
Mr J didnt agree. He said, in summary;
A J Bell knew the PTA was to be closed in May 2017 but didnt tell him until July 
2017. If hed been  told sooner he would have had longer to prepare to consider his 
options.
Whilst he could have  traded through his advisor, this was more cumbersome.
There were  delays  in the XO account  being  made available.  He was told it would be 
a matter of months but ultimately it took over a year for this to happen.
There was a poor level of communication.
The £125 offered wasnt adequate. He could have achieved a return  of 4 per cent on 
more than £90,000 over a period  of 19 months.
 
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99282823Having considered the evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  as the adjudicator  and 
for essentially the same reasons. I dont  uphold this complaint. I think the offer A J Bell has 
made of £125  is fair in all the circumstances.  I think this adequately reflects  any 
inconvenience caused by its errors, the temporary  denial of access to the online account.
There is little I can add to the detailed reasoning of the adjudicator in his view which I have  
set out above.  Fundamentally, as he acknowledges, Mr J has not been prevented from 
trading in his SIPP. Whilst he may not have  been able to trade personally, he would have  
been able to make trades with the assistance of his adviser. This may have been more 
cumbersome for him but that isnt the same  as being prevented  from taking action. So Im 
not satisfied that it would be fair to make  any award for the investment loss Mr J has claimed 
when he was not, in fact, prevented from trading if he really  wished to. Im satisfied that Mr J 
could have avoided,  or at least  mitigated,  any loss.
The PTA wasnt A J Bells  product and it wasnt its decision to close  it. So I cant  fairly hold it 
responsible for the impact  of withdrawal on Mr J. And in so far as communication  of that 
decision is concerned,  I would have expected the provider of the PTA to take primary 
responsibility for that, and not A J Bell.
Ive considered what Mr J has said about  the delay in making the XO account available,  but 
as the adjudicator has said,  A J Bell wasnt  under an obligation to provide the XO account. 
Also, Ive not seen any evidence that it provided  any guarantee or assurance on the 
timescale as to when  this account would be available. And, again,  Mr J wasnt  actually 
prevented from trading  as he could have traded through his adviser if he wished to.
Overall, Im satisfied that the offer made of £125  is a fair offer.  Im not satisfied that it would 
be fair or reasonable  to make any award in respect of the investment loss Mr J claims. 
Thats because Im not satisfied that A J Bell caused that loss and, even if it had, Mr J wasnt  
actually prevented from investing by other  means  if he wished. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I consider the offer of £125  to be fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9928282