K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the card and PPI in July 2003  via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he didnt know PPI had been  added to the credit card account  therefore  it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. Mr S applied for the credit card online. Weve seen 
copies of the web pages that Mr S would  have seen during the application process.  There 
was a specific section  for PPI and Mr S would have  needed to select either a yes or no 
option to request or decline the policy. These  options have equal prominence  and neither 
has been pre-selected.  Therefore I consider  that Mr S would have understood from the 
wording and layout  of the page that the PPI was optional.  There  was also a link to the terms 
and conditions. The application process  couldnt  be progressed  until an applicant had 
selected either yes or no. Barclays has provided a copy  of Mr Ss application report  which 
recorded the answers that he gave  and this shows that he chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the available  evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out 
the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise  Mr S to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough  information to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not it was right for him.
Mr S would have received  less than three months  sick pay from his job. The policy would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr S would have 
received full pay for.
Mr S has said that his family could have helped, but other people cant  always  be relied  upon  
as their circumstances  can change. Overall I think that Mr S had a need  for the policy  and 
could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
Ref: DRN96381742This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Barclays does have  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr S about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium and it should  do this now if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9638174