K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs M holds with Southern Pacific  Mortgage Limited 
(SPML). Mrs M complains that from inception  in 2006 until 2018,  SPML  arranged  buildings 
insurance on the mortgaged property at very high cost,  having led her to believe she had to 
have the insurance  it chose. Its only recently that she realised she could  arrange  a policy 
herself, saving around £500 a year. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide.  This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not 
be side-tracked by matters which have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs M took the mortgage out with SPML in 2006,  on the advice and recommendation of a 
third party mortgage  broker  Ill call P. Each  year SPML arranged  building  insurance through  
its block policy arrangements,  initially with an insurer Ill call R, and then later with one Ill 
call L. In 2018, it wrote to tell Mrs M it was ending the cover with L, and she arranged  her 
own insurance cover, saving around  £500  over the typical  premium  shed been charged for 
the cover  with R and then L.
Mrs M complained, saying shed been overcharged by more  than £5,000  over the life of the 
mortgage. Also, when  shed tried to claim for a blocked drain, shed been told it wasnt 
covered. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld; referencing  the mortgage  offer 
and contract terms, she considered that SPML had made it known  at the outset  that Mrs M 
could arrange  her own cover, subject to meeting its conditions. She also thought  SPML had 
reinforced that message each year when  it sent out the renewal information.
Mrs M didnt  agree; she remains firmly of the view that SPML has treated her unfairly  and 
overcharged her. Whilst the case has been  with us awaiting review  by an ombudsman,  
Mrs M was informed  that SPML intended seeking an order to evict her from the mortgaged 
property. Thats currently on hold pending our determination of the complaint about  the 
buildings insurance.  Meanwhile, Mrs M has begun two new separate  complaints, against R 
and L respectively,  about the premiums  they charged for the policies  they provided.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
Ref: DRN95997102with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said in the background, If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  
context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide whats  fair in the round.
As a starting point,  it was a condition of the mortgage that the property acting as security  for 
the mortgage be insured. That was, and remains to this day, a basic  and fundamental 
requirement of all mortgage contracts. However,  it has never been a condition  of the 
mortgage that the house be insured using a policy arranged by SPML.  That much  was set 
out in the mortgage offer Mrs M received in 2006. 
That position  has also, as the investigator rightly observed, been reiterated at regular 
intervals in letters SPML (or the third party Ill call A that currently acts as SPMLs 
administrator) sent out. Each time a renewal advice letter was issued to Mrs M, it included a 
message that she could  arrange her own cover, and guidance on SPMLs requirements  for 
verifying the replacement  policy.  
Ive seen correspondence where  Mrs M has told SPML (or A) she had arranged her own 
policy, but on none of those occasions  did she provide the information  SPML  required (as 
permitted by the terms the underlying  mortgage  contract) in order to be satisfied the new 
cover was adequate.  
Mr M says shes a well-educated  person  who wouldnt pay upwards of £700  for insurance if 
she thought she was free to buy it cheaper  elsewhere. I cant speculate  on how much of the 
detail of the mortgage contract with SPML she read and assimilated. The responsibility for 
ensuring the contract was suitable  for her and met her broader requirements  would have lain 
with P, the broker who arranged it for her. 
It was also Ps responsibility,  when  Mrs M agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions  of 
the mortgage, to make  sure shed seen and understood  them.  I can make no findings here 
on the advice  or information given by the broker, as this is a complaint against  SPML,  and 
SPML didnt  sell or recommend the mortgage. If Mrs M wished to pursue a separate  
mis-selling complaint,  shed need to do so with the broker  P, or any successor  firm as 
appropriate.
Nor can I disregard the annual renewal notices  that routinely  reinforced  the message  that 
Mrs M could  arrange her own cover if she met SPMLs conditions for doing  so. I know Mrs M 
doesnt agree, and Ive noted how passionate she has been in presenting  her arguments. 
However, I have to follow the evidence and when I do that, Im unable  to conclude  that 
SPML has treated Mrs M unfairly  or concealed  from her that she has always been at liberty  
to arrange her own insurance.   
Ref: DRN95997103my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Southern  Pacific  Mortgage Limited. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9599710