K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  that Virgin Money plc has unfairly  rejected  her claim made  under  section  75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. She wants a refund  for damaged  goods and 
compensation.
background
Ms A tells us she purchased some  carpet  from a company Ill refer to as F. She says she 
paid almost £1,300  and used her Virgin credit card to make the payment. She says that 
when the carpet fitter came to unfold  the carpet  prior to fitting it was discovered  the carpet 
was damaged. She says she complained to Virgin but it rejected her complaint.
Virgin told us it had processed Ms As claim under both chargeback and section 75. It said F 
had rejected the chargeback claim. And it said that Ms A hadnt  shown thered been a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. It said shed  agreed to Fs terms and conditions 
and hadnt inspected the carpet upon  delivery. Virgin added  that F had offered to replace the 
carpet and charge Ms A only for the delivery cost but that this had been unacceptable to 
Ms A.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2020. I said that I intended to 
uphold the complaint but only in part. I indicated that I was minded to recommend that Ms A 
should be refunded the cost of one roll of carpet  together with delivery  and fitting costs.
Since my provisional decision was issued both parties have indicated their acceptance of it. I 
thank the parties  for their replies and as both are now in agreement Ill mostly  repeat it in my 
final decision  which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms A has experienced the inconvenience and frustration with the problems 
which have arisen  following  the purchase of this carpet.
Ms A brought her complaint to this service under section 75. Whilst I dont  apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. Section 75 potentially provides a customer  - who has used 
certain types of credit  to pay for goods  and/or services - with a "like" claim against  the 
supplier of that credit (Virgin) as they would have against the supplier of the goods  or 
services (F). It requires there to have been a misrepresentation  and/or  breach of contract by 
the supplier in relation to the goods/services  supplied.
As this complaint  is brought against  Virgin, its important for me to explain  that Im looking at 
the way in which it dealt with Ms As claim. Im not deciding on the merits of any underlying  
claim she may have against F. But in determining if Virgin  has treated Ms A fairly Ill take this 
aspect into consideration.
Ref: DRN91616052Where theres a dispute of fact - in this case its about whether the carpet  was damaged  
before or after it was delivered to Ms A - Im required  to make my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. Its not disputed  that six rolls of carpet were delivered and that Ms A signed a 
receipt to this effect. Ms A didnt inspect the carpet  at the time as it was still in sealed rolls. 
So it wasnt  until the carpet fitter commenced  work some days later that she says she 
discovered that one roll was damaged.  Ive seen photographs and theres no doubt  there  are 
tears in the fabric. The Consumer Rights Act of 2015 (CRA) requires that for goods to 
conform to contract they must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. So clearly if the 
damage occurred  prior to delivery to Ms A, the goods would not be of satisfactory quality. 
And a breach of contract wouldve occurred.
Im aware that Virgin submits that by signing  for the carpet Ms A was accepting  it was in 
satisfactory condition when supplied. And that Fs terms and conditions required the goods 
to be inspected if any claim for damage was to be considered. Ive considered Fs terms and 
conditions, including  Section 5, which is headed  Consumer rights  and states:
iv) all deliveries must be fully inspected for delivery damages before  signing for their receipt, 
signing appropriately thereafter. Any claims for damaged  goods  in transit can only be 
considered if they have  been signed for as such.
Section 9 which is headed Our refunds  and complaints policy states:
iv) AII items  should.be checked for faults prior to installation any goods found to be faulty.  
after they have  been installed will be the responsibility of the consumer.
It seems  to me in this instance it would be unrealistic to expect Ms A to have inspected all 
six rolls individually at the point of delivery.  Apart from having to unpack and unroll each item 
separately - not to mention  having  to then repackage them prior to fitting - it wouldve 
required the delivery driver to wait. Whilst fine in theory, I think most  of us would recognise  
that in practice  couriers are usually anxious to move on to their next task.  Id also make the 
point that the fault was discovered  prior to installation  (fitting) and notified to F.
As it was reported the goods didnt  conform to contract within six months  of supply its for 
Virgin or F to show  the goods were  of satisfactory quality when supplied to Ms A. The only 
information which supports this is the delivery  note signed by Ms A. For the reasons Ive 
already explained I dont  think  this is to be relied upon  other than to show  the goods were 
delivered. And not as an acceptance  they were in good condition. I accept that Ms A 
discovered the damage only when the packaging was removed  by the carpet  fitter. And on a 
balance of probabilities Im satisfied the damage occurred prior to delivery to Ms A.
I note that when Ms A first complained to Virgin  on 8 November 2017 her claim was for a 
sum in excess of £1,400. This included the entire cost of the carpets  - even though only one 
roll was damaged and the other  five were fitted  in her property. It doesnt  seem to be fair and 
reasonable for her to have expected  a full refund when the majority of the goods supplied  
were of satisfactory quality.
I also acknowledge that - even though it didnt accept the damage had occurred prior to 
delivery - F offered to replace the damaged item.  But it required Ms A to pay for the 
additional delivery charge of almost £60. Whilst I think  it wouldve been preferable for Ms A 
to accept the replacement - and dispute  the delivery charge later - I can understand  why she 
didnt wish to accept  the offer in the terms it was made.
Ref: DRN91616053I think Virgin initially handled  Ms As claim correctly  by considering the claim under 
chargeback. But when the chargeback claim was rejected by F, I consider it (Virgin) 
shouldve given more  consideration  to the section  75 claim. Its final response letter indicated 
that as Ms A hadnt supplied  any additional information to support her claim and hadnt 
shown there  was a breach of contract  it wouldnt uphold her complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and its therefore open to a merchant to reject a claim 
purely on the basis that a claim doesnt meet the relevant terms and conditions of the 
scheme. But Section  75 is a statutory provision. And I think  there was enough information  
available to Virgin that it shouldve accepted the damage had most probably occurred prior 
to supply to Ms A. There was no doubt  the item was damaged and there was no evidence to 
show it had been  damaged whilst with Ms A. Simply relying on the delivery note to justify 
refusing the claim  was not in my view fair and reasonable. And given that F had agreed  to 
replace the item the only outstanding issues wouldve been the consequential additional 
charges for fitting and delivery.  In these circumstances I think  Virgin should have recognised 
it had a liability in this respect. Had it done so its probable Ms A wouldve then accepted the 
replacement item from B provided her additional expenses  were met. She was only 
concerned with not being out of pocket - not which business should  cover her costs.
In summary,  I find on a balance of probabilities,  the goods werent all of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. Ms A is entitled to be refunded the sum of £174.62 which is the cost of the 
damaged roll of carpet.  And shes also entitled  to reasonable fitting and delivery  costs.  Im 
also aware Ms A wants to be compensated for the fact that shes  had the inconvenience of 
not having this carpet  for two years. But given she refused a reasonable offer of a 
replacement Im not making  any further award  in respect of this aspect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but in part 
only.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Virgin Money plc to take the 
following action: 
1.Refund £174.62 together with simple  interest at the rate of 8% per year from date 
of payment to date of settlement;
2.Pay £150 to Ms A towards fitting  and delivery costs  of the replacement carpet.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161605