K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about a Fixed Sum Loan  Agreement he entered into with Omni Capital 
Retail Finance Limited. 
 
background
In April 2018, Mr P bought  a training course  which he paid for using a Fixed Sum Loan  from 
Omni. He had a few problems with the provider which he spoke to Omni  about such  as with 
the medical, getting hold of the provider and had to pay for his sight test himself. In 
October 2018, after he started  the course but before he completed  it, the provider ceased  
trading. He contacted Omni  for assistance,  but he says nothing  was done; he said they just 
expected him to repay the loan. He cancelled the direct debit and has now been contacted 
by a debt collector.  
Omni looked into Mr Ps complaint. They said they were aware that the provider had gone 
into administration and, through  the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), they had an obligation to 
enable him to obtain the service hed paid for. They arranged for an alternative provider to 
give him the remainder  of the training hed bought. They said the new provider would contact 
him within two weeks but provided him with contact details should they fail to do so.  
Mr P was unhappy with Omnis offer and wanted to simply  cancel  the course and receive  a 
full refund. He referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked  into it. Our 
investigator agreed with Omni that the CCA applied in this complaint. He said it was clear  
Mr P had started the course before the provider ceased trading and that Omnis  offer to 
enable him to complete his training was reasonable, taking into account  what  he felt was fair 
and Omnis obligations under the CCA.  
Omni accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr P didnt. He said the initial  course provider 
had promised to employ him when  he completed  the course  the new provider  didnt. He 
said he wouldnt have started  the course if this promise hadnt been  made.  Mr P has had 
some other problems in his life which have caused  him a lot of stress and the issues with 
Omni have  added to those. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps further  comments and said hed seen  no evidence that 
Mr P was guaranteed employment on completion  of the course.  But he said he could see 
from the providers  website they said theyd  use their network  of contacts  to help their 
customers to find a job. He didnt feel this was the same as promising Mr P a job. Our 
investigator felt Omni had treated  Mr P fairly. As there was no agreement, Mr Ps complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA (section 75) says that in some circumstances the borrower under a 
credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of goods or services (in this case  the 
course provider). Im satisfied the required circumstances for Mr P to make a claim are 
present here. 
Ref: DRN99376092My role isnt to decide whether  Mr P has a valid claim under section 75, as that is for a court.  
Instead, Im required to decide  whats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
While we dont have  the paperwork setting out exactly what  was agreed between  the course 
provider and Mr P, it is evident that he hadnt  received  everything  he paid for by the time 
they ceased trading. So he didnt have to opportunity to benefit from all the modules of the 
course and receive  the qualification it would  have provided. This means there  has been a 
breach of the contract  Mr P entered into with the provider.  
Section 75 allows Mr P to raise a claim against Omni as the creditor;  the CCA says Mr P has 
a like claim against them as he would against  the supplier (the course  provider in this case).  
If the provider were still trading and breach of contract like this had arisen, Id have  expected 
the course provider  to fulfil the contract  by providing the remaining training. As the provider 
isnt trading, Omni have arranged for another course  provider to give him the training to put 
right the breach of contract. The course  appears to be a like for like replacement and the 
training centre of the new provider was within a reasonable distance of Mr Ps home. For 
these reasons, I think what Omni have done  to remedy the breach of contract was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Hes asked for a full refund but Mr P had already completed part of the course before the 
provider ceased  trading  so it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Omni to make  a full refund.  I say 
this because hes had the benefit of some of the training and that would put him in a better 
position than if the contract  had never existed. 
For a claim to be brought against the creditor (Omni) for misrepresentation under the CCA, 
the debtor  (Mr P) mustve been told something  by the supplier (the provider) that wasnt true 
and that induced him into entering a contract which he wouldnt otherwise have done. 
Section 75 deals with misrepresentation explicitly, and section 56 of the CCA refers to 
communications between  the negotiator (in this case the course provider)  and the debtor 
(Mr P) before the contract is signed. In other  words, section 56 covers what was discussed 
before the contract was entered  into  what is known  as antecedent negotiations. It says 
any representations made by the negotiator are deemed to be carried out in their capacity as 
agent of the creditor.  This means Omni can be held responsible  for anything the course 
provider said or promised. 
Mr P said the original provider promised  to employ him on completion of the course and he 
wouldnt have bought it otherwise. He said he didnt agree to Omnis  proposal of completing 
the course with the new provider because they didnt have the employment guarantee after 
completion. So Ive thought about whether theres enough evidence for me to conclude the 
situation was misrepresented  to Mr P which would make Omni liable under section 56 or 75. 
Ive seen no documentary  evidence that shows Mr P was guaranteed employment  as hes 
suggested. But I have  seen that the website of the course provider which says that people 
who pass their course can have a promising career and they were proud ofsupport 
and on-going help in finding employment  once  you have  completed [the course]  and are fully 
qualified.  
While its possible  from what  Mr P has said that he may have been misled into believing  he 
was guaranteed a job at the end of the course,  he may also have  misunderstood what  was 
on offer. I think the website was clear that help and support  would be given to students to 
find a job rather than there being a guarantee of employment. 
Ref: DRN99376093Even if Mr P had been told he was guaranteed a job, I think  it more likely than not that Mr P 
would still have gone ahead with the course  if hed been told the true position.  I say this 
because the type of course it was, would  have given him access  to a wide range of 
employers and its likely the provider would have been able to help him secure a job. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  theres been  a misrepresentation  that induced  Mr P into 
entering the contract that would mean Omni are liable to Mr P under the CCA.   
Having looked  carefully at Mr Ps complaint, I think Omnis offer to remedy the breach of 
contract by appointing  an alternative provider was a fair one. As Ive said,  I dont think  it 
would be fair for Mr P to receive  a full refund as hes already had some  benefit from the 
course he bought.  
Mr P has said hes cancelled  the direct debit  to Omni and I believe, arrears  have grown.  If he 
now finds himself in financial difficulty as a result, Id remind Omni  of their responsibility  to 
treat him fairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9937609