K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC declined her request to raise a 
chargeback in respect of an item which  she purchased  from a department  store.
background
Mrs J made  an online  purchase of womens boots from a department store using her Tesco  
credit card. When Mrs J received the boots  she discovered that she had been sent childrens  
boots instead  of womens boots.
Mrs J returned the boots to the department store  and requested  a refund. The department 
store refused the refund. It said that the boots which Mrs J had returned  were not items 
which it stocked. It also said that all orders were  inspected  before dispatch. The department 
store sent the boots back to Mrs J.
Mrs J asked Tesco to raise a chargeback. Tesco  asked Mrs J to obtain independent 
verification.
Mrs J contacted the manufacturer/supplier  of the boots and asked them to confirm the items 
she had received were  not the items she had ordered. The supplier was unable to provide 
this confirmation.
In its final response Tesco  said that Mrs J hadnt provided independent verification and that 
because 120 days had passed since payment was made the dispute  couldnt be considered 
because it was out of time.
Mrs J was unhappy with Tescos response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he would have expected  Tesco to attempt a 
chargeback without requiring independent verification because  it was clear that Mrs J had 
purchased womens  boots  and had received childrens boots. The investigator  also said that 
Mrs J had a claim  for breach of contract under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
because she hadnt received the boots which she ordered. The investigator recommended 
that Tesco rework the credit card as if the transaction  had not taken place and arrange for 
the return of the boots  to the department store at no cost to Mrs J.
Tesco didnt  agree. It said it wasnt obliged to raise  a chargeback unless it believed there 
was a reasonable chance it could win the dispute. Tesco also said that under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act a consumer had to prove  that a breach  of contract or a 
misrepresentation had taken  place  and that in this case  it only had Mrs Js word against the 
department store which it didnt think was good enough for it to accept a claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs J asked Tesco to raise a chargeback it asked her to provide independent 
verification that the goods were  not as described.  Whilst  I understand that Tesco asked for 
this in accordance  with the relevant chargeback guidelines, I dont think  Tesco took into 
Ref: DRN99444572account the particular circumstances of this case.  I say this because the goods received by 
Mrs J were (on her account) completely  different to the goods which she had ordered. 
Mrs J had provided her purchase  invoice  to prove  that she had ordered  womens  boots and 
provided photographs to show that she had received childrens boots.  She had already 
attempted to return the boots to the department store and there was correspondence 
showing this. In these  circumstances  I dont think an independent report  would have  
achieved anything further. Because of this I dont think it was reasonable of Tesco  to refuse  
to raise the chargeback claim on the grounds  that Mrs J hadnt provided independent 
verification. 
The fact that the department store was more likely than not to have defended the 
chargeback claim isnt of itself a good  reason for Tesco not to raise  the chargeback. And 
whilst I agree that the prospects of success of a chargeback claim are greater with 
supporting evidence, I think that in this case Mrs J had provided sufficient supporting 
evidence. Im also satisfied that her actions were entirely consistent with having  received the 
wrong goods.
For these reasons I dont  think  that Tesco acted fairly by not raising the chargeback claim.
Ive also considered whether Mrs J would have a claim  under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
Whilst I appreciate that the department store has said that it doesnt stock  the boots which 
Mrs J returned and that all orders are quality checked before being sent out to the customer,  
I dont think it is beyond  the realms of possibility that the order wasnt  checked  properly or 
even that the supplier  had mistakenly placed childrens boots in a box labelled womens  
boots. 
Although the department store told Mrs J that it didnt stock  the item she returned, I can see 
from the stores website that it stocks a range of childrens boots which  are similar to those  
received by Mrs J. Mrs J has provided  photographs of the childrens boots which  she 
received showing  that they arrived in a box labelled womens boots.  Im satisfied that Mrs J 
didnt receive the item that she ordered and that accordingly there has been a breach of 
contract.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold the complaint.  Tesco Personal Finance PLC should:
Rework the credit  card as if the transaction hadnt taken  place
Arrange for the return of the boots to the department store at no cost to Mrs J.
Ref: DRN99444573Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9944457