K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been insensitive to their hearing  
difficulties and want an extension to their mortgage to allow  them to sell their property. Mr 
and Mrs N would like Barclays to carry out the formalities  in writing and not penalise them for 
wanting to discuss  things by phone.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out an interest only mortgage  with Barclays in 2004. The term was 15 
years and the mortgage matured in February 2019.  The balance on the mortgage and the 
MCA is in excess of £240,000. The equity in the property is in excess of £1m. Mr N is aged  
81 and Mrs N is aged 78. They both have hearing  difficulties. Mr and Mrs N would like an 
extension to the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs N complain that although Barclays want to 
discuss this by phone because of the complexity they would like to deal with this in writing. 
Mr and Mrs N say that instead of helping them, Barclays sent threatening letters.
Barclays says that it didnt note on its arrears  system that Mr and Mrs N had hearing 
difficulties even though it was aware  of this issue  and offered Mr and Mrs N £100 
compensation. It says that it has now added a note to that effect but is unable  to amend any 
regulatory/automated letters which ask them to phone  back.  Barclays says that in order  to 
deal with Mr and Mrs Ns requests for an extension it needs certain information. Barclays 
says that unfortunately when it asked for information  Mr and Mrs N didnt provide the 
information requested.
Our investigator didnt  believe  that Barclays acted unfairly and didnt recommend that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs N disagreed saying in summary that:
Barclays asked them to complete  a form in January 2019 which  they did in a timely  
manner but had to re-do as Barclays denied  receiving it.
Despite the request  not to contact  them by phone Barclays  continued  to do so.
Barclays sent them solicitors letters in June 2019  despite knowing about their 
ongoing complaint  and their medical  condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N have hearing  difficulties.  Mr N told us in early 2019  that he wore hearing aids 
and that Mrs N was waiting on an appointment to be assessed.  So, in early 2019 Mr and Mrs 
N asked that Barclays  communicate with them in writing.
 
There are two separate although related complaints here. Firstly, whether Barclays  has dealt 
fairly with Mr and Mrs Ns request for an extension of time to sell their property. Secondly 
whether Barclays has responded reasonably to their communication  difficulties.
Mr and Mrs N couldnt pay off their interest  only mortgage which matured in February 2019 
as they had agreed to do under the terms of their mortgage. As the account approached 
maturity we would expect Barclays to contact Mr and Mrs N to see what options were 
available to them to pay off the mortgage.  There are notes on the account dated 1 
November 2017  and on 2 July 2018  which indicate  that the repayment vehicle was intended 
Ref: DRN90958712to be the sale of the property and this was on course to be sold. What  is missing from those 
notes is any discussion about  what Mr and Mrs N were going to do next. Clearly theres a lot 
of equity in the property  but a sale will mean  that Mr and Mrs N will have to move  and there 
doesnt appear to be any discussion about that or whether they might want  to look at an 
equity release product.
At that time of those  discussions, theres  nothing  in the notes to indicate that Mr and Mrs N 
had any hearing  difficulties. Barclays seems to have simply accepted  that Mr and Mrs Ns 
intentions were to sell the property but not what they were going to do next. It may be that 
some of the misunderstandings  that have subsequently arisen  might  have  been  avoided with 
a fuller discussion at that time.
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs N asked for an extension of time to sell the property and it seems 
that Barclays was looking  at this but wanted  more information about the prospects for the 
sale and to see what Mr and Mrs N could pay towards the mortgage in the meantime. But 
this matter hasnt progressed.
Barclays were  told by the selling agents  in January 2019 that the property had been on the 
market since 2015 when Mr and Mrs N had been  looking  for £1,800,000  for it. The estate 
agents said that it was with them  from October  2018 and the asking price  had been  reduced 
to £1,625,000. Given  the length  of time it has been  on the market, Barclays  reasonably  
asked in its letter of 11 April 2019 - Mr and Mrs N asked for the communication to be in 
writing - whether it was realistic to expect  a sale to be completed in the following 12 months 
and what alternative  arrangements had they considered  if they were  unable to sell by then? 
Barclays wanted a Form of Authority  to speak to their estate agents.
I dont believe that this was an unreasonable request,  especially  as the property appeared to 
have been for sale for five years  with another agent and I believe that the lender was entitled 
to know whether the property was being marketed at a price that was likely to attract  buyers. 
This would have affected its decision  as to whether to allow the extension.  But Mr and Mrs N 
have never  responded to that request or provided any reason for refusing to respond.
The second  issue  was that Barclays wanted to see what, if an extension  was granted, Mr 
and Mrs N could pay towards  the capital balance,  given  that the mortgage had ended.  
Barclays sent out an income/expenditure form to make this assessment and Mr and Mrs N 
responded completing a form for each of them. I understand they had to do this twice.  In the 
letter referred to of the 11 April 2019,  Barclays asked Mr and Mrs N for some  follow-up 
information about their income. 
I note one of the questions  was that as they had a car, they didnt include spending  on petrol 
or car insurance on their form and querying  that. Another question was whether the £100 
figure for groceries each  month was correct as it seemed low. These questions seem to be 
reasonable follow ups and indeed seem  intended  to assist Mr and Mrs N to ensure that they 
dont under record their spending. But Mr and Mrs N simply dont answer the questions on 
the basis, as I understand it, that they believed that these werent relevant as long as they 
made the monthly payments  to Barclays.
It seems  to me that at that stage, if Mr and Mrs N had responded to the questions,  Barclays  
could have then considered the application. But they didnt. Although Mr and Mrs N have 
asked for communication to be in writing and Barclays should  be responsive  to their 
communication needs, it seems to me that in April 2019, Barclays put their questions as Mr 
Ref: DRN90958713and Mrs N asked them to do in writing, but Mr and Mrs N didnt respond  to the questions 
asked.
Although Barclays had responded in April as Mr and Mrs N had asked, according to the 
contact notes it didnt  put a note on Mr and Mrs Ns account about their hearing difficulties 
until August. I see that Barclays  asked  Mr and Mrs N to contact them  by phone  about arrears  
and made  a follow-up  call in May which would have been annoying for Mr and Mrs N. But I 
dont believe  that it was Mr and Mrs Ns communication  difficulties that prevented the 
application progressing  and I think that it was in Mr and Mrs Ns hands to move the 
application forward. I note that Barclays apologised for contacting  Mr and Mrs N by phone 
when they asked for contact in writing and offered compensation of £100. I know  that Mr and 
Mrs N were very upset about  this. But as I have stated I dont consider that this failure 
prevented Mr and Mrs N getting the extension they were looking for and I consider the offer 
appropriate.
Its unfortunate that matters dont appear to have progressed since  and Im unsure whether 
Mr and for Mrs N have  got a buyer for their property. In the light of the difficulties that they 
may have  experienced during the pandemic, we would expect Barclays to give Mr and Mrs N 
a fair opportunity to sell their property.  I consider that Barclays request for a letter  of 
authority to contact their estate agents is reasonable especially given that over a year has 
passed since the mortgage matured.  If Mr and Mrs N want  Barclays  to give them  further time 
to sell, I would expect that they would give Barclays the information it reasonably asks for.
If Barclays is then able to contact the agents  and a sale in a reasonable period seems 
viable, Barclays should allow  that time. If it is not, and Mr and Mrs N want to pursue another 
option such as equity release, I would again  expect  that Barclays  would allow Mr and Mrs N 
a reasonable period to pursue that option. As I indicated above  this doesnt appear  to me to 
have been discussed with Mr and Mrs N prior to the maturity  of the mortgage.  
Barclays should also ensure that its communications with Mr and Mrs N meets those  
required under  Principle 7, namely that it should pay due regard  to the information  needs of 
Mr and Mrs N and communicate  information  to them in a way which  is clear fair and not 
misleading. It should ensure that they arent disadvantaged by their disability. But for the 
reasons set out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.       
Ref: DRN90958714my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9095871