K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  wouldnt let him 
reject a car or pay for repairs.  
background
In June 2016 Mr M acquired a second hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement  with 
VFS. The car was some two years old and had done 23,500  miles.  In September Mr M took 
the car back  to have  work done on the tyres and brakes and VFS returned one months 
payment to cover the cost. The dealer had offered to take the car back  and refund his 
deposit, but Mr M rejected this offer.
The car was serviced  at 10,000 mile intervals  in April 2017 and March  2018. No problems 
were identified, but in the summer of 2018  Mr M encountered some  more issues after his 
warranty period had expired. VWF paid 50% of the cost of the repairs and for a diagnostic  
examination. A little later the EGR  valve had to be replaced and Mr M told VFS that the 
garage had damaged the car and also had made use of it.
VFS rejected Mr Ms complaint and he brought it to this service.  It was considered by one of 
our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr M said that the issues  he had 
encountered were  indicative  of an underlying fault. 
The investigator didnt  think the issues with the tyres and brakes  were  of such a nature as to 
allow him to conclude that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality. Furthermore he noted 
that the issues had been  resolved  and VFS had covered the cost. 
He didnt think the issues which came to light in 2018 were  linked to the earlier  faults. These 
problems arose two years later and after more than 20,000 miles had been covered. He said 
he thought this indicated that these problems were unlikely to have been present at the point 
of sale. In addition  as Mr M had use of the car for that time and distance he wouldn't  be able 
to conclude the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality.
He also took into account the durability of the car and noted most  of the work done was for 
general wear and tear. He explained that it was reasonable  to expect this as an on-going  
cost of running a car. He said that after carrying out some research into the lifespan  of an 
EGR valve and he couldnt  conclude that its failure after some 43,000 miles was unusual. He 
suggested that if Mr M had any complaints about  the garage  he should take these to the 
Motor Ombudsman.
Mr M didnt  agree and said his family  had almost  been hurt in the car and he had suffered 
distress because of VFSs lack of support. Latterly he said the car had suffered more faults 
and it failed when  his wife was driving  it. He also said it had gone into limp mode.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN98881982The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I would make it clear that my remit is limited to dealing with Mr Ms complaint against VFS 
and I cannot consider his concerns about the garage. This means the only issue  for me to 
consider is whether the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was acquired by Mr M.
Shortly after purchase Mr M had an issue with the brakes and there was damage  to a tyre 
which he says the dealer  had agreed  to fix when he acquired the car. These two issues were 
dealt with and VFS covered the cost. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response by VFS. I note that Mr M was offered the opportunity to reject the car at that point 
and declined  to accept that offer. I can only assume  he was happy  with having the car 
repaired and had no concerns about  its safety.
The issues  which  have arisen in the last year came after Mr M had owned the car for some 
two years and had done well over 20,000  miles. That on its own would suggest that they 
were not present at the point of sale. I have not seen  any evidence, other than Mr Ms 
assertion, that the more recent issues were part of some underlying  fault which was present 
in June 2016. As a car ages it will suffer wear and tear and there may well be problems that 
are uncovered, but that doesnt  mean  they existed at the point of sale. 
Therefore I am unable  to identify any grounds  which would allow me to uphold  this 
complaint. I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr M has shown, but he hasnt demonstrated 
that there  were problems  at the point  of sale that were of such  a nature that I can say that 
the car wasnt fit for purpose.
Ref: DRN98881983my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9888198