K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about issues  shes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background
In January 2018 Mrs H was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
In October  2018 Mrs H contacted Santander  to complain  about issues  shed experienced 
with the engine. She explained that the car required repairs costing approximately  £14,000  
and that the manufacturer  would  only cover 60% of these  costs  under warranty.  She asked 
Santander to cover the shortfall.
Santander asked  Mrs H to provide evidence that the faults  were  present at the point of 
supply. It also contacted the manufacturer to find out why it was only prepared to contribute  
6)5 of the repair costs.  The manufacturer said it provided up to six years support but that the 
percentage it would  contribute  towards repairs decreases over time.
Mrs H didnt provide any evidence to show that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply.  An independent inspection was carried out in September 2018  but the 
inspector didnt find a point  of supply fault so Santander closed the complaint. Mrs H 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  that the fault 
with the engine was present or developing at the point of supply or that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs H didnt agree. She felt that the fault related to a known issue with the engine  and 
provided supporting  information about  this which  she had obtained  from the manufacturer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable taking into account  factors  such  as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first six months, its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After six months its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale.
In this case, I can see that Mrs H reported the engine issues  outside of the first six months. 
So its up to her to show  that the fault was present  or developing at the point  of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. The independent  inspection in this case  was carried  out in 
Ref: DRN95594682September 2018. The report noted that premature crankshaft failure is a known issue on the 
type of engine fitted to the car. But he also noted  that the coolant level was low, which he 
said could indicate  a different failure reason. The inspector was unable to identify the cause 
of the engine failure and said the engine would  need to be dismantled to confirm  the cause.
Based on the inspection  report, Im unable  to safely conclude that there  was a fault with the 
car at the pint of supply. Im also unable to safely conclude that the engine failure was 
caused by a known issue with the engine because the inspector hasnt concluded this and 
has said that it may have  been caused  by something else.
Ive looked at the technical service bulletin relating to the car which  refers  to crankshaft 
bearing failure on the type of engine  fitted  to Mrs Hs car. However,  because  the inspector  
reported that the coolant level was low, I cant be certain that there  wasnt some other cause 
for the engine failure.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that crankshaft bearing  failure  was the 
cause of the engine issue. Because of this, Im unable to say that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9559468