K820x#14complaint
Miss E and Mr C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay their travel insurance claim 
after they cut short their holiday because Mrs E was unwell. 
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background
Miss E developed  an eye condition on holiday,  which was diagnosed as viral conjunctivitis. 
She and Mr C spoke to AXA from abroad and came home early. They made a claim, which 
included their costs for returning home  and the unused part of their holiday.
AXA turned down their claim. It said their policy gave cover  for cutting short  their trip 
(curtailment) only if they were medically advised to return home early. It said the medical 
centre where  Miss E was treated didnt  give this advice.  AXA paid £75 compensation for not 
explaining this outcome  from the outset. 
Miss E and Mr C came to us. Our adjudicator  ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. He 
didnt consider the medical evidence from the clinic  where Mrs E was treated or their GPs 
evidence showed  it had been medically  necessary for them  to come home. They  didnt 
agree, and said a third doctor had advised them to go home. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about all the evidence but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that Miss Es eye condition wasnt pleasant  for her on holiday. She explained  to 
AXA that her eyes were very sore and swollen, she couldnt go out and she couldnt use the 
pool. The doctor abroad  said her conjunctivitis  was severe and I can see why shed want  to 
go home. She and Mr C were looking at return flights when they called AXA from abroad. 
AXA explained at the time that while they could submit a claim there was no guarantee it 
would be paid, and it would need  more  evidence to confirm cover.
The AXA policy does provide cover where  a trip is cut short  due to illness. For AXA to pay 
their expenses under the policy Miss E and Mr C needed to obtain a medical certificate from 
a medical practitioner  to support their claim.  
I dont think the medical evidence  Miss E and Mr C provided did support their claim. The 
letter from the doctor who treated her at the time of their call to AXA from abroad said that 
her eyes  were showing a gradual improvement with the treatment. Miss E says she was 
advised to return  home  but theres  no additional  evidence of that. The fit to fly certificate said 
that the condition wasnt infectious.  AXA contacted  the clinic where  she was treated, which 
said the doctor hadnt advised her to return home  early. So I think AXA was entitled to rely 
on the evidence  that it did receive.  
Ive read the letter from Miss Es GP, whom she saw after she returned home. The GP said 
that Miss E had had several medical reviews while on holiday,  received medication and was 
Ref: DRN95693082advised to curtail her holiday  and return  home  early. But it seems  to me this was written 
based on what Miss E had told her GP. 
Miss Es GP went  on to say Having  seen photographs of her eyes taken at the time, she 
certainly had severe conjunctivitis, and advice to return home early when treatment did not 
appear to be helping matters would have  been sensible. But I dont think this shows that 
Miss E was given advice  by a medical  doctor  abroad. And the medical evidence that AXA 
was given said that there had been  a gradual  improvement.
I dont think the weight of the medical evidence is in Miss Es favour.  I think  AXA fairly  turned 
down her and Mr Cs claim  for the additional  travel expenses and the unused days of their 
holiday. So I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss E and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9569308