K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2009.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ts account  when he completed  an online application form for a credit  card.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint because I dont think  Barclays gave him clear  
enough information about the policy. Ill explain why. 
Barclays didnt recommend the sale.  But Barclays still had to provide Mr T with enough 
information for him to decide  whether the policy was right for him. The terms and conditions  
that likely  apply to Mr Ts policy say that he wasnt able to claim for any period of disability 
that results directly or indirectly  from any medical  condition which  he knew or should 
reasonably have known about  at the commencement date, or had seen or arranged to see a 
doctor about during the 12 months prior to the commencement date of the policy.  And Im 
not persuaded Mr Ts attention was drawn to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mr T wouldve  bought the policy  if hed been given the 
right information. Mr T had a long term medical condition, which had caused him to have  time 
off work in the past on a number of separate occasions. He had received treatment  for this 
condition and still had the condition when the policy was taken out. And, while it may have been 
under control at the time of sale there was no way of knowing it would stay this way. T
Barclays does not think that the Mr Ts condition was likely  to have caused him to have  28 
days continuously off work after the point of sale and therefore, it does not believe that Mr T 
was impacted by this limitation of the policy. I disagree. Mr T has told us that this condition 
had caused him to take more than 28 days off work  on a number of occasions  and as Ive 
said above, there was no guarantee  that it would not cause him to take further periods of 
time off work in the future. 
Thinking about  the nature  of the condition and everything hes told us, I think  its likely that it 
wouldve been at the forefront of his mind when deciding if he might  want cover to protect  his 
card payments in the event he was unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN93779822So I think Mr Ts medical condition wouldve played an important role in his decision on 
whether to purchase a policy including accident  and sickness  cover.  And given the nature of 
Mr Ts condition, I dont  think that he wouldve bought the policy  if hed been  told  as he 
shouldve done   he wouldnt be able to claim if he couldnt work because  of it. I dont think 
Mr T wouldve bought the policy if hed been  provided with clear enough information.  So, I 
think Mr T has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
fair compensation
Im intending  to say that Barclays should put Mr T in the position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out the PPI. So Barclays should:
A.find out how much  Mr T would have owed when  he closed his credit  card account if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr T owed when he closed  his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.add simple  interest on the difference  between what Mr T would  have owed when he 
closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.also pay simple interest  on the extra Mr T paid - if when  Barclays works out what   Mr T 
would have owed each  month  without  PPI he paid more than enough to clear  his 
balance. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr T wouldve owed 
Barclays something  on his credit card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
D.tell Mr T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9377982