K820x#14complaint
Mrs T brings  this complaint as Executor of the estate of her late mother, Mrs H. The 
complaint is about  an Extra Income Plan (EIP) taken out in 2000 by Mrs H (and her 
husband, Mr H, who has also passed away) with a business which  is now known as Phoenix 
Life Limited (Phoenix).  Mrs T says that the EIP wasnt  suitable  for her parents. After  Mrs H 
went into nursing care,  Mrs T also complained about  the length of time taken by Phoenix  to 
sell the property and the costs involved. 
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs H took out the EIP with a business which later became Phoenix. The 
EIP is what is known  as a home reversion plan. Under the EIP, Mr and Mrs H transferred 
ownership of their home to Phoenix. In return,  they received  a cash  lump  sum of £19,990 
and a £1.00 gross monthly annuity. Phoenix also granted Mr and Mrs H a lease allowing 
them to remain in the property for the remainder  of their lives. 
The agreement between Mr and Mrs H and Phoenix  was that the net proceeds of sale would 
be divided  equally between themselves and Phoenix,  with each party  receiving 50%. The 
terms and conditions provided that, if the borrower  needed to move into a residential home 
or with relatives, the cost of sale would be split between Phoenix  and the borrower.
On 13 July 2018 Mrs H moved into a nursing  home. Mrs T (who was at that point acting for 
her mother  under a Power of Attorney) contacted Phoenix to put in motion the process  to sell 
the house. Mrs Hs 50% share of the equity from the net proceeds  of sale was needed to pay 
for her care home, so Mrs T wanted  the sale to proceed quickly.
Mrs T was unhappy at the length of time it took to sell the property. She was also unhappy 
that her parents  had taken out the EIP in the first place  and thought theyd had bad advice. 
She complained to Phoenix in October 2018. In its final response letter dated 9 October 
2018, Phoenix set out the timeline of events. It acknowledged  that Mrs T was upset that the 
sale hadnt progressed  as quickly as shed have liked. Phoenix offered £150 compensation, 
which Mrs T accepted and which was paid to Mrs H.
In December 2018 Mrs T complained to us because  she was still unhappy  about  the way in 
which the sale was progressing. Mrs T said that Mrs H owned half the property and so 
Phoenix should have been  communicating with her (Mrs T) as Attorney for her mother.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint. He noted Mrs T had accepted  compensation of £150 
but he thought Phoenix should  pay another £350,  making a total of £500. Phoenix didnt 
agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
Since then two things  have happened:  I am very sorry to note that Mrs H passed away  on 
22 March 2019.  And I see that the property  was sold on 29 March 2019. Mrs T is Executor of 
her late mothers  estate,  and so is able to continue with the complaint on behalf of the 
estate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96452182I will explain  at the outset  that Im not going  to be looking at Mrs Ts concerns about the 
suitability of the product taken out by her parents. In 2000 home reversion plans were 
unregulated. The original  product provider was a member of the Personal Investment 
Authority Ombudsman  Bureau (PIAOB). We can consider complaints that would have been 
covered by the PIAOB. But the PIAOB could only investigate complaints about  personal 
investments  and the EIP does not fall within the category of a personal  investment. This 
means that I have no power to consider a complaint about the suitability of the EIP arranged 
in 2000 by Phoenix Lifes predecessor company, as its not covered by our rules.
Mrs T is bringing  this complaint as a representative   initially  as Attorney for Mrs H but now 
as Executor of Mrs Hs estate. But this doesnt  entitle Mrs T to air her own grievances 
against Phoenix because she isnt its customer.  So although I appreciate  Mrs T feels  very 
strongly about this matter,  I can only consider  the complaint in the context of Phoenixs 
customer relationship  with Mrs H.
I must also clarify  a misunderstanding on the part of Mrs T. After the home reversion was 
taken out, Phoenix  became the 100% legal owner  of the property. It was no longer owned  by 
her parents.  They were  granted  a lease to live in the property. The terms of the EIP were  
that the legal  title to the property was in the name  of Phoenix, but the equitable interests in 
the property were that Phoenix and Mr and Mrs H were entitled  to 50% of the net proceeds  
of sale each.
The implications of this for the complaint are that Phoenix was the only party able to sell the 
property, being  the legal  title owner. But it was necessary for the lease to be surrendered  
before Phoenix  was able to sell the property  without any legal encumbrances (such as the 
lease) on the title.
I see that Phoenix, in its final response, clarified  that it didnt think  it had acted incorrectly. 
But it acknowledged that things hadnt  happened as quickly as Mrs T had wanted, and it paid 
£150 to Mrs H for this. The adjudicator thought Phoenix should pay a further £350, but 
Phoenix didnt  agree.
So what  I have to decide is whether I think the £150 compensation already paid is sufficient 
or whether any further compensation is due to the estate.
Ive looked at the timeline of events,  and Im not persuaded there was any inordinate  delay 
by Phoenix in marketing  the property, given that it was necessary  to surrender the lease.
Mrs T says that, if the property had been  put on the market in the summer, it might have sold 
much more quickly.  Im unable to speculate  about  this. The UK property  market  has been  
significantly affected by uncertainties in the political climate. Research carried  out by the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in late 2018  showed  that the average time to 
complete a property  sale in the UK was 19 weeks. Given this, Im not persuaded that putting 
the property on the market sooner  would  have made  any significant  difference.
Im also satisfied that it wasnt appropriate  to market the property before the lease had been 
surrendered. The property needed to be offered  to the market with an unencumbered title.
Ive reviewed the costs  associated with the sale, and I am satisfied these are reasonable.  
Phoenix was entitled to appoint an asset manager to handle the sale and there were also 
legal costs involved. 
Ref: DRN96452183Overall, Im satisfied the £150 paid by Phoenix  is fair and reasonable. In her capacity as 
Executor of the estate,  Mrs T isnt entitled to be paid compensation in her own right.  And 
looking at what happened, I dont think that, before she passed away  in March  2019, Mrs H 
was caused any additional trouble or inconvenience  that would warrant any further award of 
compensation to her estate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £150 paid to Mrs H by Phoenix Life Limited  is fair and reasonable. I make  
no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision  before  22 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9645218