K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with the valuation  of their 
buy to let properties. 
background
Mr and Mrs J applied to Barclays for a mortgage on their buy to let properties.  They  owned 
two flats namely 13 and 13a in the same  semi-detached house. They wanted a loan of 
£157,000 and believed that the value of the properties was about £240,000. According to 
their mortgage application  form, Mr and Mrs J bought the properties in June  2016  for 
£195,000. Barclays  instructed  a firm of surveyors. The instruction sent from Barclays  
referred to a price of £158,950 for the property. It also referred  to the values of the flats as 
£125,000 and £115,000  and the monthly  rent that was paid on each  flat.
The valuer had a phone call with Mr J on 4 May 2018 to arrange an inspection and to clarify 
certain issues. After his inspection, the valuer valued the properties at £150,000  but then 
revised the valuation  to £170,000. But this was substantially below what Mr and Mrs J 
believed the properties were worth  and they complained to Barclays and the firm of 
surveyors. Barclays says that it relied on a firm of professionally qualified  surveyors to do the 
valuation and was not able to lend the amount that Mr and Mrs J wanted  to borrow  based  on 
that valuation.  Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as 
she felt that Barclays  should  be able to rely on the valuation. Mr and Mrs J say that the 
valuer was misinformed  about the value  by Barclays and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs J believe that Barclays misled the surveyor by indicating  in its instruction that it 
wanted the property valued as a whole and that the estimated valuation  it sent to the valuer 
was £158.950. I can see why Mr and Mrs J would think  that as thats  what  an employee  of 
the surveyor read from her computer  screen when Mr J rang on 30 May.
I looked at the instruction from Barclays to the firm of surveyors.  It is an instruction to value a 
property in multi-units. It refers to two flats and gives the estimated values as suggested  by 
Mr and Mrs J. It also puts the price of £158,950 besides the loan of £157,000. This appears 
to have been an error and I assume that this error made its way onto the surveyors 
computer system. This on its own would  suggest  that the property was being bought for 
£158,950. But Barclays had also put on that instruction that there were two flats to be valued 
and gave Mr and Mrs Js estimated valued.
I listened to the call in early  May when the valuer was setting up the appointment to visit the 
properties. The valuer clearly thinks that his instructions are to value one property. However, 
Mr J makes it clear  that there are two flats. The valuer asks what  the estimated values are. 
Mr J takes a short time to find these  and tells the valuer that the estimated value of one 
property is £115,000 and the other  £125,000.
Ref: DRN91256902So, I can see that when  the valuer  contacted  Mr J to arrange  an inspection that there was 
some confusion on his part. I note that the valuers firm says that there  was an additional 
note advising that Barclays required a valuation for Flat13 and Flat 13a, this was not visible 
to the administrator when they took your call which would  explain why the surveyor  thought 
he was to value  one property and why the employee believed  there  was only one property to 
be valued when  she spoke to Mr J at the end of May. 
My view is that there was some confusion before the phone  call when the surveyor  read the 
Barclays instruction and thought he was valuing one property. But I believe that after the 
phone call and a further review of his instructions meant that the surveyor knew that he was 
to value two flats, the estimated values  that Mr and Mrs J were putting on them  and that this 
wasnt a case where  the properties were being  bought so the price  that Barclays  put on the 
instructions was irrelevant. The surveyor then inspected and valued the two flats.    
The valuer valued one property at £70.000  and the other at £80.000. So, clearly  any 
confusion that the valuer had about  the number of properties he had to value had been 
clarified. After Mr and Mrs J expressed  dissatisfaction, the valuer revalued  the properties  in 
total at £170,000. Mr and Mrs Js say that this is a gross  undervalue. I see that the surveyors 
have reviewed this on a number of occasions  and have stuck  with that valuation.
Barclays is entitled to rely on that professional valuation  rather  than the views of Mr J about 
the values of the properties which I accept are sincerely held. I cant  accept Mr and Mrs Js 
view that the valuer was misled by Barclays instructions as any confusion he had was 
clarified in the phone call he had with Mr J.  So, I cant fairly say that any error by Barclays is 
likely to have affected the valuation of this property and for that reason I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9125690