K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002 . 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Canada Square  disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Canada Square has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint. This is because I dont think the information Canada Square  gave Mr M about the 
cost and benefits of the PPI was as clear it should  have been. I say this because  the screen 
shots of the internet application  process  dont clearly  show  enough information about how 
long benefits would  be payable. It wasnt enough  to refer Mr M to the full policy  wording to 
work it out from there.  
I think this would have  mattered to Mr M because  his combined employer sick pay and 
savings would have  replaced his income for longer  than the time the PPI would pay benefits. 
If hed known this, I dont think hed have thought the cost of PPI worth paying. 
Mr M has lost out as a result of Canada Squares failings in this case   I dont think hed 
have taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
fair compensation
Canada Square  Operations Limited should put Mr M in the financial position  hed be in now if 
he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  find out how much  Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his credit  card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  Operations Limited should then refund the difference between  what 
Mr M owed  when he closed his account  and what he would have owed if he hadnt  had 
PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square  Operations 
Limited can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN97845112B.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  add simple interest on the difference  
between what Mr M would have  owed when he closed his account from when he closed 
it until he gets the refund. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square Operations Limited  works out what Mr M would  have owed 
each month without PPI  Mr M paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Canada 
Square Operations Limited should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mr M paid. And 
it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when  Mr M would have owed Canada 
Square Operations Limited something on his credit  card.  The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
D.Canada Square Operations  Limited  should  tell Mr M what  its done to work out A, B 
and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  Operations Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Canada Square  Operations Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Canada Square Operations Limited  to pay Mr M compensation in accordance with 
the calculation  of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  5 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9784511