K820x#14complaint
Mr M acquired a new vehicle in October  2015, by means of a 24 month hire agreement  with 
PSA Finance UK Limited. He complains that, when he returned the vehicle in October 2017, 
PSA unfairly applied  damage charges to his agreement account. He wants PSA to waive 
these charges.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 November 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld in part. I thought it should  not be upheld.
PSA did not responded to my provisional decision,  but Mr M did saying:
Everything was done through the supplying dealership
He was annoyed at the way PSA had dealt with his complaint  
oon the one hand, why was it unwilling to reverse the service history charge,  
when the dealer  had provided evidence that his vehicle had been properly 
serviced?
oon the other hand, why was it willing to reduce the other  charges, if what it 
said about the body damage  was correct?
oagain, on the one hand,  why reduce the total charge to settle?
oagain, on the other hand, why could  it not have adopted the same approach 
to the service history, as it did to body damage?
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Neither PSA nor Mr M has provided new evidence.  Although Mr M has questioned PSAs 
motives, and what he appears  to see as its inconsistent approach  in response to which I 
make the following comments:
I sympathise with Mr M, but I agree with PSA that, whether or not the vehicle was 
serviced, its service history was incomplete  which would affect  its re-sale value
PSA described its decision to make a settlement offer,  reducing  the charge,  as a 
goodwill gesture  and, in the absence of evidence  to the contrary, I am unable (and I 
dont think it would  be appropriate) the challenge this motive
(As I commented in my provisional  decision) Mr M appears to have  relied on the 
dealership to service  his vehicle,  to record these services properly, and to arrange a 
smooth return of his vehicle to PSA  he may feel that the dealership  has let him 
down, in relation  to the second  and third of these  tasks
And so, in the absence of other arguments or evidence  to the contrary,  I continue  to think 
that the conclusion reached in my provisional  decision is correct.
Ref: DRN92665212my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92665213COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
5 November 2019
complaint
Mr M acquired a new vehicle in October 2015,  by means of a 24 month hire agreement with PSA 
Finance UK Limited. He complains that, when  he returned  the vehicle in October  2017,  PSA unfairly  
applied damage charges  to his agreement account. He wants  PSA to waive these charges.
background
Mr M acquired his vehicle from a local dealership. He and the dealership said the vehicle was 
serviced in accordance with the manufacturers  requirements. In October 2017, Mr M returned the 
vehicle to the dealership, where it was inspected by a member  of the dealerships staff.  
The dealership described this member of staff as a manufacturers  authorised body-shop  inspector 
and qualified  auto technician. Although  the dealership  did not appear to be a main  dealer for  or 
approved by  the vehicles manufacturer.  
The dealership provided a vehicle  handover  form, which  included the following  information:
Service record up to date
No damage  noted
The inspectors signature
The vehicle was then collected by a PSA agent, who also signed  the handover  form. It is unclear,  
though, whether the agents  signature implied  agreement with the assessment of the vehicle included  
in the form,  or whether  it merely confirmed  that the vehicle had been  handed over.
On the same day as the vehicle was collected, it was inspected by PSAs agent.  The agents 
inspection report included the following information:
Service history  incomplete
Vehicle bodywork damage  in four places, beyond normal wear and tear
The inspectors signature
Based on its agents report, PSA sent a damages invoice for a little under £600 to Mr M. He 
complained about this invoice, saying:
The car was inspected by the dealership before  it was collected by PSAs agent
This inspection indicated that the service  history was complete, and that there was no 
bodywork damage
If, before  the vehicle was collected,  he had been  made aware that the service history was 
incomplete or that there was bodywork damage, he would have dealt with these matters prior 
to collection
The car could have been  damaged  after collection
Ref: DRN92665214PSA responded to this complaint,  saying:
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms hire agreement,  he was required to return  the 
vehicle with no damage beyond normal  wear and tear
Mr M was also required  to ensure that his vehicle  was serviced in accordance  with the 
manufacturers requirements, and that these services were correctly  recorded in the vehicles 
service book
Its agents  inspection report included pictorial  evidence that Mr Ms car was damaged beyond  
normal wear and tear
Whether or not the vehicle was serviced, its service history was incomplete  which  would 
affect its re-sale value
It was willing to remove  charges for two of the four places where bodywork damage had 
occurred  this would reduce  the payment required by just under £100, to just under £500
Mr M referred  his complaint to us. Our investigator concluded that the complaint should  be partly 
upheld. He thought:
The remaining body  work charges of just under £300 had been fairly applied
But evidence from the dealership indicated  that the vehicle had been appropriately serviced,  
and so the incomplete  service history  charge should be removed  (this would  reduce  the 
payment required by a further £200)
PSA disagreed with our investigators conclusion. And so this complaint was referred  for review by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
In reaching his conclusion, our investigator considered  the contradictory evidence from the 
dealerships vehicle handover form and PSAs  agents inspection report. He felt the handover form 
should not influence  whether charges for bodywork damage are, or are not, applied.  He then agreed 
with PSA that the remaining charges should  be applied.
I think  that both the handover form and the agents inspection report  should  be considered. 
On the one hand, the dealership is not an independent party in this matter.  It also appears not to be a 
main dealer, or approved  by, the vehicles  manufacturer. I feel these  two factors  could reduce  the 
force of the evidence it has provided to us.
On the other hand, the agents report provides clear  evidence of bodywork damage.  And so, on 
balance, I agree with our investigators view that the remaining bodywork charges  should  be applied.
I also acknowledge the handover form states that the service record is up to date.  But, on balance,  I 
find that the service history is incomplete (as stated in the agents report). 
I accept as well PSAs argument that the terms and conditions of its agreement  with Mr M should be 
adhered to correctly, in relation to both services undertaken and service history. This is because I find 
that PSAs  concern about the vehicles  re-sale  value  is fair and reasonable. And so, I disagree with 
our investigators  view about the service history  charge.
I sympathise with Mr M, who appears to have relied  on the dealership to service  his vehicle, to record 
these services properly, and to arrange a smooth return of his vehicle to PSA. He may feel that the 
dealership has let him down, in relation to the second and third of these  tasks.  
But Mr M, and not the dealership, is responsible  for adhering to the terms and conditions of his 
agreement with PSA.  And so it is down to him to make the required  payment of just under  £500.  
Ref: DRN92665215my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
M or PSA Finance UK Limited  by 5 December  2019, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266521