K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc didnt fully refund him for interest and 
fees hed been incorrectly charged  due to non-compliance. They  kept some of the money  to 
offset a debt that Mr R owed to them. Mr R says that they shouldnt have kept any money 
because the account had been closed when hed been  in an IVA and this had now run its six 
years. 
Mr R would like a full refund of the interest  and fees plus compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to him by the actions of National  Westminster Bank Plc.
background
In 2009, Mr R had a loan with Natwest.  He fell into financial difficulties and entered  into an 
IVA with various creditors. Natwest was one of these creditors.  They agreed to the IVA 
which included his loan account. The IVA was approved  in April 2009. 
In August  2018,  Natwest wrote to Mr R saying that they had not complied with their 
obligations under  the Consumer Credit Act. They were obliged to send regular  loan 
statements and a Notice of Sums in Arrears if a customer fell behind in payments. They 
didnt think that they had done this so found that they werent entitled to charge interest or 
fees on the loan for the period that they were  non-compliant. They said they owed Mr R a 
refund of £3895.33. But, as Mr R still had an outstanding debt of £3272.30, they said they 
would offset this against what they owed him. They gave him a refund of £623.03. 
Mr R raised a complaint  in September 2018 saying that Natwest  shouldnt offset any debt as 
it had been part of the IVA which had run its course  of six years. 
Natwest didnt agree. They said that they were entitled to offset any debt owed to them 
against any refund they gave to a customer. They referred to their Right  of Set Off policy.  
This states  that the refund due to the customer  will be used to set off against any 
outstanding arrears and/or excess the customer currently has with the bank, as well as 
against any debt which has previously been written  off. 
Natwest also found that they shouldnt  have given anything to Mr R. This is because,  in the 
outstanding debt figure, they had forgotten to include a debt from Mr Rs current account 
with them  that had been written off. This debt was for £1,419.16 which meant  that the 
outstanding debt shouldve been  around £4,600. They said,  taking this into account,  they 
shouldnt have given  Mr R any money at all. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this decision to he came to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that because of Natwests  Right of Set 
Off policy, they were entitled to take back the money Mr R owed to them  from the refund that 
they owed to him. She said this applied  even though Mr R and Natwest  had agreed to an 
IVA. 
Mr R didnt agree with this decision so it has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN90483602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr R wont be happy with my decision. I think  that Natwest are entitled to offset  the 
amount owed to them  from that which they owe to Mr R. I will explain why. 
I have looked  at the IVA that Natwest agreed to. At the time that it was made,  I can see that 
Mr Rs outstanding debt to them for the loan he had taken was over £22,000. Over time, 
Mr R managed to reduce  this amount to just over £3,200. Im sure that this couldnt have 
been easy for Mr R and I can see why he thinks that any debts should now just be forgotten  
as his IVA has finished.  
But, Natwest does have  a policy on when they can apply set offs. This policy was part of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Rs loan and current account. So, he is bound by it. 
I looked at the wording  of the policy to see if Natwest had acted in accordance with it. The 
policy says that when a debt has been  written off, Natwest  will only claim it back if they 
havent agreed to a full and final settlement of the account. I dont think  that Natwest  wrote 
off the debt owed  for the loan but they did write  off the amount owing on the current  account. 
Because the debt owed for the loan wasnt written  off, I think that Mr R still owes  it. 
Unfortunately, unlike bankruptcy, an IVA doesnt mean that the debt will no longer  be owed 
after six years. So, Natwest would still be able to ask for the debt to be repaid after six years. 
I considered whether the IVA meant that Natwest had accepted  all payments in full and final 
settlement of a written  off debt. But I dont think that Natwest did accept that what was paid 
off on the current account  was in full and final settlement. I think that they just decided  to 
write off the debt.  So, I think that, even though they didnt, Natwest  could  still claim back  this 
debt too. 
I can see how this wouldnt seem fair to Mr R as he thought he had resolved all of his 
financial issues when his IVA had run its course. But I dont think its unfair for Natwest  to 
use the offset policy. I think that its fairer for Natwest to have their debt repaid than Mr R to 
get back money that actually belongs to Natwest. 
I also note that Natwest  hasnt asked for the debt on the current  account to be repaid. I think 
that they have  acted  fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I wont be asking National Westminster Bank Plc to do 
anything else.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Ref: DRN90483603Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048360