K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a car he is financing through an agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited, 
trading as Motonovo, is of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr L took receipt of a used car in February  2018.  He financed the deal through  a three year 
hire purchase agreement with Motonovo. The total credit provided  was £5,645. The car was 
seven years old and had completed  70,000  miles when it was supplied.
Shortly afterwards Mr L noticed  some problems with the paintwork and he had the car 
inspected by a bodyshop specialist who noticed:  a door didnt fit properly;  there was 
evidence of a respray and some defects in the paintwork.
So Mr L complained  to Motonovo and they arranged an independent  inspection  of the 
vehicle. The inspector said the rear wings and doors  showed  signs of repair and there was 
some cosmetic damage that may have  been caused by a minor accident. He noticed that the 
drivers door was out of alignment but explained that was easily corrected through an 
adjustment of the pillar.
Motonovo refused to pay for any repairs but they did offer £200 towards them. They  said that 
this was a second hand car that would have some  signs of wear and tear and that the 
damage must have  been noticeable  at the point of supply   so they suggested Mr L had 
accepted the car in that condition.
But Mr L disagreed  and he referred  his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator thought  
£200 was a fair and reasonable settlement. He thought some wear  and tear of this type 
could be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage and he noted that Mr L had signed  a 
document at the point of supply to say hed inspected the car and that the condition of the 
bodywork and paint  had been drawn  to his attention. So he didnt think  Mr L needed  to take 
any further action.
But Mr L disagreed  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN98196332Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But the relevant  legislation says that when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality if the pre contract inspection should  have  revealed faults with a car, and the 
consumer goes ahead with the deal anyway, then these faults should not persuade  us the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality.
I can see that Mr L signed to say hed been given an opportunity to inspect the vehicle and 
that his attention had been drawn  to the bodywork  and paint. I accept  that that doesnt 
necessarily mean his attention was drawn  to the specific  issues  he now complains about but 
I do think its likely that Mr L was given  an opportunity to inspect the car in detail. 
Ive reviewed images of the damage  to Mr Ls car and I think  its fair to say that during that 
inspection he ought to have noticed  the damage. The gap in the door and the chipping to the 
door edges seem particularly obvious.  So I dont think it would be fair to subsequently  ask 
Motonovo to take responsibility. 
But Motonovo have offered to pay £200 towards the cost of any repair  and I think  thats  
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9819633