K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express)  mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think American Express made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this now as the sale 
was a long time ago. 
I say this because  Ive been given  a copy of Mr Cs postal credit  card application and can 
see theres a separate section about the PPI with a box to tick if it was required.  The box has 
been ticked on Mr Cs form. Mr C says he ticked the box as he was made to feel if he didnt  
take the PPI he wouldnt  have got the card.  But Ive seen nothing  on the form that suggests  
he was more likely to get the credit  if he ticked the box. If Mr C didnt want  to take out the 
PPI he could have  left the box blank.  Mr Cs said more recently  that the box was already 
ticked when he received the form. But from what Ive seen and from what I know about how 
American Express sold PPI at the time,  I think thats  unlikely.  And as Mr C has signed the 
form in agreement with its contents  (including  the tick), I would have expected him to have 
read it carefully and questioned the PPI with American Express  at the time if it was 
something he hadnt wanted.
Mr C says that he had a conversation with American Express before the postal application 
form was sent to him. Of course  I dont  know what was said to him over the phone.  But 
considering he didnt actually apply for the card (or PPI) over the phone  and that a standard  
postal mailshot application  was sent to him, I think its unlikely  that any detailed conversation 
happened with regards to PPI and Ive not seen  enough to suggest  to me that he was told 
PPI was something he should  take out. 
 
I dont think American Express recommended the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have  to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide 
if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Mr C has told us that he became self-employed a few years  after the sale and that when he 
tried to claim  on the policy he couldnt. But I have to look at his circumstances at the time the 
Ref: DRN95778092policy was sold  and at that point  he was employed. So even if he had been told it may 
have been more difficult to claim on the policy if he was self-employed  I dont think this 
would have changed his mind about  taking it at the time. Especially as it was years  later his 
circumstances changed and the policy could  have been cancelled at any time. 
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But American Express will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  American Express didnt 
tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, American Express has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
American Express has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. American  Express should also pay back to Mr C any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
American Express should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the 
difference between  what  Mr C owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. American Express  should also pay 
Mr C 8%* simple interest if he paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN95778093But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9577809