K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that following  a service visit, British  Gas Insurance  Limited  (BG) left 
them without a working boiler  and also terminated their HomeCare policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a HomeCare policy with BG which provided cover for their boiler and 
heating system. This also provided them with an annual boiler service. On 16 January 2019,  
a few days into their new policy year, a BG engineer  (engineer J) came to undertake  the 
annual service of their boiler.
Mrs G has said that when  engineer J arrived, he complained about the difficulty  of working 
on this type of boiler and that he only had a 30 minute time slot for the job. She says he 
became threatening towards her, and after examining the boiler,  he said hed have to 
condemn it and cut off her gas supply. Mrs G didnt want him to do this so she called her 
husband who was working nearby and asked him to come home.
When Mr G arrived,  he asked engineer J to leave as his wife was now very upset. Mr G took 
engineer Js tools  outside.  Mrs G says that engineer J then became aggressive towards 
Mr G so the police  were called. The police spoke  to engineer J who alleged that hed been 
assaulted by Mr G when  leaving  the property.
According to Mrs G, while the police were there,  an engineer from the gas utility company 
(engineer W) arrived  to cut off the gas supply to the boiler as it had been condemned. 
He found a leak, which meant that the gas would have  to be cut off at the mains .
According to BG, Mr G phoned the police after throwing  the engineers tools  out of the front 
door, and whilst the engineer was leaving through the front door, Mr G punched  or pushed 
him in the back. Engineer J phoned his manager, who sent another engineer,  engineer A, to 
join him. The police then arrived, and took statements from engineers J and A.  
The police went inside and spoke  to Mr G and on their return  they asked  engineer J if he 
wanted to pursue an assault charge, which he said he didnt. The gas utility  company was 
called as Mr G was refusing to allow engineer  A to switch off the gas supply. Engineer  W 
entered the property to isolate the gas to the boiler,  and engineer A then entered  the 
property with the police to put the boiler  back together to make it safe if the power  was 
switched on. It says its engineer was right to try to cap the boiler.
BG also says that when  its service manager  contacted Mr G by phone to discuss the 
incident, Mr G used  threatening  language  during the call and it was discontinued.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to BG about  the incident.  BG addressed  their complaint and 
referred to its own investigation  of it. As its engineer had claimed he was assaulted, it 
cancelled Mr and Mrs Gs HomeCare policy with immediate effect because of aggression  
towards a member of its staff. It referred them to a term of their policy  which states:
Working in dangerous or unsafe conditions
We won't start or continue doing  any work  in your home if we believe there's a health 
and safety risk, for example: hazardous  chemicals, pest infestations,  verbal or physical 
abuse, or harassment. And we won't  return to finish the work until that risk is gone.
Ref: DRN99359642Mr and Mrs G say that their boiler  had been  working fine before the annual  service visit. 
Engineers had in the past complained about the difficulty  in working  with this make of boiler, 
but when parts had been needed theyd always been available and repairs  had been made 
when necessary. Theyd been left with no gas supply  and so no heating  or hot water.  In 
addition, their HomeCare  policy  had been  terminated.
Mr and Mrs G believe  theyve been  treated very badly by BG and complained to this service.  
Our investigator was satisfied that BG had acted in line with the terms and conditions  of  
their policy.
Mr and Mrs G dont agree with our investigators view. They say that apart from everything 
else they had to go through, they were left with a gas leak. Theyve  asked that their 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman so its been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
When undertaking the annual service of Mr and Mrs Gs boiler, it was engineer  Js 
assessment that it should be condemned. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the necessity for this. 
They also say they were left with a gas leak. But they havent provided any evidence to 
support this. Theyve  merely stated  that that is what engineer W said. But even if this were to 
be correct, I cant conclude  that BG was responsible for this. Its engineer had been asked to 
leave by Mr G, so hed have been  unable  to undertake any checks for leaks, and in any 
event, the gas utility company then attended as did BGs engineer A, so any leak wouldve  
been for a very short period of time as the gas supply was then cut off at the mains.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I therefore cant say that BG was wrong in 
condemning the boiler. And if its engineers opinion that this was necessary was reasonable, 
then it was correct that the gas supply be turned off and capped  for safety reasons. I also 
consider that theres insufficient evidence  that BG was responsible for a gas leak, or if it was, 
that Mr and Mrs G were  exposed to any harm as a result. So Im not upholding these parts of 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
 
As to the complaint  that BG has cancelled  their HomeCare policy,  I think  that in the 
circumstances BG has acted in accordance with the terms  of the policy. Apart from that 
section of the policy quoted above,  the policy also states:
When we can cancel
We can cancel your agreement or product if:
 You put our peoples health and safety  at risk, for example, physical or verbal abuse
So I dont  consider that BG has acted unreasonably here given the outcome of its 
investigation.
Mr and Mrs G didnt provide any evidence that might  suggest that BGs diagnosis  of a 
problem with their boiler that required it to be condemned was incorrect, or that they were  
left with a gas leak.  Theyve only said that their boiler was working fine before the service 
Ref: DRN99359643visit. Mr and Mrs G have been  asked  on a number of occasions  by our investigator and 
myself to provide  any information that supports their complaint but they havent done  so. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G have been  facing a considerable amount of stress because  
of their respective  jobs and the effects  of the current pandemic, and I have taken into 
account their email of 9 November. However  this service cannot keep complaints open 
indefinitely. Mr and Mrs G have been  allowed  six months within which to provide this 
information which I consider to be a sufficient period of time,  so Im now issuing my final 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and I 
dont require British  Gas Insurance Limited  to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935964