K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC failed to send them  their account  
statements when requested. 
Background 
Mr R says he and his wife took out a loan with Barclays which  they were repaying  at £50 per 
month. Mr R says he cancelled the direct  debit payment in favour of the loan as he believed 
they had repaid the balance in full.
But Barclays  contacted  Mr and Mrs R as it said a balance was still owing. Mr R didnt agree 
with this, so he asked Barclays to provide statements.  But he says despite asking Barclays 
to send statements  it did not do so.
Mr R says this has caused distress and inconvenience. And that its had a negative  effect  on 
their credit files.
Barclays says Mr and Mrs Rs account  was closed to its recoveries department  in                             
February 2012. And, as this effectively means Mr and Mrs R no longer had an account with 
it, it was not required  to send regular statements to them.
It acknowledges that Mr and Mrs R made regular payments  of £50 per month towards  
repaying the outstanding  balance. But these payments stopped at the end of 2017 - before 
the balance had been repaid in full. It wrote to Mr and Mrs R to confirm  the balance  
outstanding but when  no further payments were received the debt was passed to a        
third- party  debt collection firm.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this and referred their complaint to us. One of our investigators  
looked into things  and upheld the complaint.  She noted that Barclays had told Mr and Mrs R 
that it couldnt issue account statements. And she thought Barclays had told Mr and Mrs R 
that a balance was still owed, and that it confirmed the amount. 
But she acknowledged  that there  did appear  to have been some mix up between Barclays 
and the third-party  collection  firm. Barclays records showed that, when Mr R continued  to 
ask for statements, it provided some  further information via the third party.  But this 
information wasnt forwarded on to Mr and Mrs R. While the investigator didnt think  she 
could hold Barclays responsible for the third-party  not sending  this information on, she did 
think this showed  Barclays  could have provided  the information Mr and Mrs R needed. And 
because it has subsequently been  able to provide a breakdown of the payments received 
and balance owing,  she also thought  it couldve been provided sooner than it was. So, she 
recommended that Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs R £50 for this trouble and upset the 
delay in receiving  this information caused.         
Barclays agreed to pay Mr and Mrs R £50. But Mr and Mrs R didnt accept this saying £50 
doesnt reflect the time spent dealing with this matter nor the impact  it has had on their credit 
files. Mr R also says the only reason he feels the account went  to recoveries in the first place 
was a result  of mal-administration and over-charging by Barclays.  And he asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their complaint. Hence, the complaint has been passed to me. 
Ref: DRN96948632The investigator has explained that the points Mr R has mentioned  which led up to the 
account being transferred to the recoveries department are subject  to separate  complaints. 
She also subsequently said she thought that if this matter has had a negative  impact on     
Mr and Mrs Rs credit files this would have been  as a result of the direct  debit being 
cancelled prior to receiving confirmation that the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
So, for clarity, this decision  solely relates  to Mr and Mrs R not receiving statements and the 
consequences of cancelling the direct  debit mandate.     
   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly  about this matter.  But after careful  thought, I 
agree with the recommendation made  by the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Ill 
explain why.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr and Mrs Rs account was transferred  to Barclays 
recoveries department. In my experience,  this generally means the account  is closed  and 
Barclays has told us that this is the case  here. So, in these circumstances, I dont think 
Barclays was required to provide statements in the way I think  Mr and Mrs R expected  it to.  
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs R to have expected Barclays to provide 
them with enough  information to show them what they had paid and what they still owed.  
After all, they had been making  payments for some time. And it seems Barclays  has now 
been able to provide confirmation of the payments made and the balance  owing. So, I agree 
with the investigator  that this could have  and should  have been  provided much sooner than it 
was. And it follows that I think Mr and Mr R should receive some compensation for the time 
and effort  it took them to get this information.   
The investigator recommended  that Barclays should pay £50 for the delay in providing  this 
information. I can see that Mr and Mrs R dont think this adequately reflects  the lengths  Mr R 
had to go to get it. But I note that Barclays did inform Mr and Mrs R of the balance owing 
when they first contacted it about  non-receipt  of statements. So, Im satisfied that                         
Mr and Mrs R wouldve  have known quite quickly that they still had a balance  outstanding 
and that repayments still needed  to be made. Ive also taken into consideration that Barclays 
did provide the third-party collection firm with some information about the payments that had 
been made, but it seems the third-party  didnt forward these on to Mr and Mrs R. Like to 
investigator, I dont  think I could fairly  say that Barclays  was at fault here. It passed the 
information required to the party now responsible for the debt and I think it was the third-
parties responsibility to ensure this information was sent on. So overall, I think £50 is fair in 
the circumstances.
I note Mr R has mentioned the impact  on his and his wifes credit files. Ive not seen a copy  
of their credit files. But it has been  confirmed that a balance is owed, and Mr and Mrs R have 
told us they cancelled the direct debit payment. So, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs Rs 
credit files would  reflect  this. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R cancelled the direct debit as 
they believed  the balance  had been  repaid. But I think  it would  have been  reasonable for 
them to have waited  until this had been  confirmed. 
Ref: DRN96948633And, while I appreciate  Barclays  delayed providing the full breakdown Mr and Mrs R were 
seeking, Im satisfied that Barclays did make Mr and Mrs R aware that a balance was still 
owing so they would have  known  that repayments  needed to be made. As payments werent 
made, I havent seen  anything to suggest that the information recorded on Mr and Mrs Rs 
credit file since the direct debit payment  was cancelled is incorrect.   
Taking everything into account,  I think the £50 Barclays has now agreed  to pay                                    
Mr and Mrs R is fair and reasonable. And I dont require Barclays  to do anything else in 
respect of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should pay    
Mr and Mrs R £50 (if it hasnt already  done so) for the inconvenience caused  to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9694863