K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out 
alongside a further advance in 2002. Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC (at the time 
Cheltenham and Gloucester) mis-sold them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs W say that they had no idea about the MPPI, and that it was never offered to 
them. But I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the MPPI  
and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this as it 
was so long ago.
Mr and Mrs W took out the MPPI policy when they were applying for a further  advance  on 
their mortgage. They  had their mortgage  with Lloyds since 1996,  but hadnt  had MPPI with 
prior to this. Lloyds has been able to provide paperwork from the meeting that took place  a 
mortgage application and a separate MPPI application. I can see on the mortgage 
application that the MPPI is presented as optional  and has been selected with a tick. Both 
Mr and Mrs W have  signed this application, agreeing to the information on it. A separate 
MPPI application has then been  completed, where Mr and Mrs W have  made choices about 
the level of cover required, and how to split the cover between  them.  Mr and Mrs W have 
also signed this application. 
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them. I can see that at the time Mr and Mrs W made their application,  Mr W had only 
been in a new job for a short period of time,  and wouldve had to have been in work  
continuously for six months  before being able to make an unemployment claim. The first 60 
days of cover were excluded for all customers  so effectively this means  that Mr W wouldnt  
be able to make an unemployment  claim for four months longer than most customers. 
However Mr W would  still have  been covered for accident and sickness  during this time,  
which as hed be unlikely  to be entitled  to occupational sick pay during his probationary 
period, couldve  been quite useful.  And if he was made redundant after the first six months, 
the unemployment cover would  have  been useful, as any redundancy payment he received 
is likely  to be limited due to his length  of service. Mrs W wouldve been  able to make a claim 
on all aspects of the policy  from the start. 
As Mr and Mrs W were  borrowing over a significant  period  of time, and werent affected by 
any other exclusions or limitations, and seemed to have a need for the policy,  I think that 
they wouldve  gone ahead with the policy even if the adviser  had made it clear the policy 
wasnt completely right for them.
Ref: DRN98030882Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said about not making  a claim on the 
policy when Mr W was made  redundant as they didnt know the policy was in place. But at 
the time Mr and Mrs W took out the policy, as Ive explained above, I think they knew they 
were taking out an MPPI policy. So even if they later didnt remember  doing so, I dont think  
this shows Lloyds did anything wrong  when it sold them  MPPI  and this point doesnt change 
my decision.
Mr and Mrs W may wish to contact the insurer about the possibility  of making a backdated 
claim if they want to.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9803088