K820x#14complaint
Mr B, complains on behalf of his business,  which Ill call T Ltd, that Stackhouse Poland 
Limited didnt set up his business protection insurance correctly. He also complains it didnt 
enquire about any previous businesses that had ceased trading and so information wasnt 
disclosed to the insurer. 
background
Mr B arranged business insurance  through Stackhouse in August 2016. T Ltd required 
insurance for the business to include cover  for theft of tools  in the van. Stackhouse  
contacted a broker to ensure this cover  was provided and it was confirmed  it was. 
Mr B was sent insurance documents  which included a statement of fact which  he was asked 
to check and to notify the insurer of anything that was incorrect.  Mr B didnt notify any of the 
parties that anything was incorrect.
In October  2016 Mr B changed the name  of the business. New policy  documents  were 
issued, including  a new statement of fact. Again there was no notification that any of the 
information was incorrect.   The policy was renewed in August 2017  after a telephone  call in 
which Mr B had informed Stackhouse of new turnover information.  Mr B was later sent policy 
information including a new statement of fact. Mr B didnt notify any parties that any 
information was wrong.  
In January 2018, T Ltds van was stolen. Mr B made  a claim via Stackhouse. Ultimately the 
insurer decided to avoid  the policy from renewal as Mr B hadnt  declared his involvement  
with previous businesses that been wound up, liquidated, dissolved or had ceased to trade. 
It had also discovered that at the time of renewal the business had been dormant, not having 
a turnover of £250,000,  as recorded  in the statement of fact. 
Mr B complained to Stackhouse as it should have ensured he had the correct  cover in place, 
and it hadnt asked him about his involvement with previous businesses. Stackhouse didnt  
uphold his complaint. It explained it had confirmed that theft from his van would be covered 
with the broker.  And it said it had provided Mr B with the statement of fact and he didnt 
correct any of the information  it contained. 
Not happy with the outcome, Mr B referred  the complaint to this office. Our investigator 
concluded Stackhouse hadnt  done anything wrong. She explained it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to ensure  the information  was correct and the box next to the statement about  
previous businesses had been  left blank  indicating  no. She hadnt seen anything to show 
Mr B had contacted  Stackhouse to notify it the information held was wrong or that the 
business was dormant. She therefore  didnt find Stackhouse  was responsible  for the policy 
being avoided.  And as that meant the policy was being treated as never  having been  in 
place, it wasnt necessary to comment on the level of cover, as no cover was provided at all. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said:
Stackhouse had carried out trace  and sanctions  checks on him. 
The broker had dealt  with him for a number of years  and was aware of his business  
history and it was Stackhouse to prove he wasnt  aware.  
This wasnt  a turn over related product.
Ref: DRN99134212The business status changed  but there  was no signed statement of fact or disclosure 
required. 
He wants transcripts of the calls between Stackhouse and the broker.
The broker completed the proposal  form during a meeting. 
This matter has gone past financial hardship.  
The investigator considered these points  but they didnt  change her view.  In response, Mr B 
provided a letter from the member  of staff (who no longer works for Stackhouse) who said he 
was aware of a previous business. The staff member also said the loss adjuster working  for 
the insurer had found other companies  that Mr B had been linked to  but that he hadnt 
found these when doing a company  search  at inception. 
The matter  has been referred to me for review and determination. Mr B requested a hearing. 
I considered that request and wrote  to Mr B on 15 July 2019, declining  it; I was satisfied I 
could fairly  decide  the complaint on the papers before me. Mr B hasnt  provided  any further 
evidence or arguments  for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I understand Mr B has been left in a very difficult position. As the insurance claim hasnt 
been paid out, T Ltd hasnt been  able to trade. However, I can only ask Stackhouse  to put 
this matter right, or pay compensation, if I find that it has done something wrong.
Mr B originally took out his policy in August 2016. This was just prior to the provisions of the 
Insurance Act 2015  coming  into effect. At that time,  the requirement was one of utmost  good 
faith  insured parties were required to disclose every circumstance they knew,  of should 
have known, would influence an insurers decision to provide cover or what premium to 
charge. 
As a result of information gathered by Stackhouse, insurance was agreed. Documentation 
was sent to Mr B on 5 August  2016.  This included a statement of fact. Page 2 says: 
This is in important document and you must read it in full.

You must check all the information  and material  facts contained in this 
Statement of Fact and the Schedule and contact Us immediately if any details  
are incorrect or incomplete. Failure to do so may mean that Your policy is not 
valid or We may not be liable to Your claim(s).
Later on, the document  records none next to No proposer, director or partner of the 
business has ever been  concerned with any business which has been wound  up, liquidated, 
dissolved or ceased to trade. 
In October  2016, following  the business  changing name, a new statement of fact was 
produced, which contained the same information.
The policy came up for renewal in August 2017.  In preparation for that, Stackhouse  spoke 
with Mr B about the renewal. Mr B confirmed the business was still trading, turnover was 
£150,000 and salaries were £40,000, £30,000  for him and £10,000 for one employee. 
Ref: DRN99134213The policy was subsequently  renewed on 5 August  2017. Mr B was sent a statement of fact 
on 1 August 2017 by email. The statement of fact contained a similar requirement as that set 
out above, requiring Mr B to check the information  contained  and notify the insurer  if any 
information is incorrect or incomplete. It also contained the same  declaration  in relation to 
previous businesses, which had been left blank indicating no and recorded  turnover  of 
£250,000.  
The e-mail also contained a covering letter from Stackhouse which  explained:
If you wish to proceed with renewing your cover, you must be sure that none of this 
information has changed (or if it has, you must tell us about the changes before we 
arrange cover).
Additionally, under the Insurance Act 2015  you now have a new duty to provide a 
fair presentation of the risk to the insurers, which replaces the previous duty to 
disclose all material facts. This means that you must now clearly disclose every 
material circumstance which you, your senior  management  or persons responsible  
for arranging  your insurance know, or ought to know following a reasonable search. 
A material circumstance  is on that may influence an insurers judgement over 
whether to take the risk and, if so, on what terms. If you are in any doubt to whether a 
circumstance is material you are advised  to disclose. 
Please note that failure to disclose a material circumstance may entitle the insurer(s) 
to impose different terms on your cover or reduce the amount of a claim payable, IN 
some cases  your cover could be invalidated,  which would mean that a claim would 
not be paid. 
Mr Bs policy  was avoided  from the policy renewal in August 2017 and so his claim, made  in 
January 2018,  wasnt paid.  Im satisfied Mr B was notified in the statement of fact itself, and 
in Stackhouses covering letter, of the importance of reading the information  and notifying  
the parties of any inaccuracies or changes.  
I dont know if Stackhouse asked Mr B about his previous  businesses.  But he has sought  to 
argue that the member of staff he was arranging his insurance with at Stackhouse had done 
so for a number of years and was aware  of his previous business  dealings. In support of that 
hes provided a letter  from that member  of staff. Having read the letter,  I dont think  it 
supports Mr Bs assertions. The staff member  acknowledges awareness of a live business.  
But he also explains  the insurers loss adjuster found more business connections that he 
hadnt been aware of. Im afraid Im not persuaded by Mr Bs testimony.  Im not satisfied the 
evidence shows Stackhouse was aware  Mr B had previous  businesses  that had ceased  to 
trade or that it knew  T Ltd was dormant at the time of renewal.
Ultimately, it was Mr Bs responsibility to check the information contained  in the statement of 
fact and correct any inaccuracies  with the insurer. I have seen no evidence,  and Mr B hasnt 
sought to argue, that he notified Stackhouse  of any incorrect information. It follows  that I find 
no basis on which to require Stackhouse to stand  in the shoes of the insurer and effectively 
pay his claim, as he has sought.   
As Mr B didnt disclose  the information he ought  to have done, the insurer  avoided  the 
policy. That meant the situation is treated as there  never having been any cover in place. 
Because of that I dont consider it necessary to comment on whether or not Stackhouse 
ensured T Ltd had the right level of cover as there was no cover.  
Ref: DRN99134214my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
T Ltd, to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9913421