K821x#15complaint
Mrs Q says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR)  lent to her irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mrs Q between 
March 2017 and November 2018.  Details of the loans are given  below:
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 11/03/2017 25/05/2017 3 £150.00 £74.19
2 17/06/2017 28/09/2017 3 £150.00 £81.08
3 12/11/2017 25/01/2018 3 £100.00 £50.13
4 25/01/2018 26/04/2018 3 £200.00 £99.02
5 30/04/2018 26/07/2018 3 £250.00 £123.35
6 28/07/2018 30/10/2018 3 £300.00 £150.95
7 27/11/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £151.55
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Qs complaint. He thought that MYJAR  shouldnt have 
approved loans 4 to 7. MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs Q 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN93701132There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Qs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Qs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
MYJAR says it asked Mrs Q for information  about her income and expenditure and that it 
carried out credit checks. It says it used this information to work out Mrs Qs disposable 
income and assessed  whether the loans were affordable for her. So I have looked into this in 
detail and considered the checks  it carried out in relation  to Mrs Qs loans.
For loans 1-3, given  the amounts lent, what was apparent  about  Mrs Qs circumstances at 
the time and her relatively  short borrowing history with MYJAR, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs Q provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of (including the credit search results), which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Mrs Q was saying up to this point.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mrs Q, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Qs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
By loan 4, the amount  Mrs Q was borrowing had started to increase, with her 
asking for more than any of her previous loans. The amount of borrowing  had 
not at this stage  been reduced  at all with Mrs Q consistently asking  for similar  
and now a slightly higher amount.
Mrs Q wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed MYJAR. Loan 4 
was taken out around 8 months after Mrs Qs first. And as I have already found,  
the amount being requested was not reducing  at all. Mrs Q had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect; service a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
MYJAR ought  to have realised at this stage that it was more likely than not 
Mrs Q was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan 
was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Qs indebtedness had become 
unsustainable.
Ref: DRN93701133I think that Mrs Q lost out because MYJAR  continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Qs indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  over an extended period of time. The 
number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Qs ability to 
access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint and MYJAR should  now put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mrs Q paid on loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number of loans  taken from 4 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 4 to 7 should be removed 
from Mrs Qs credit  file. 
Mrs Q still owes  MYJAR  some of the principal balance she borrowed on loan 7. MYJAR  may 
deduct the outstanding  balance of loan 7 from the compensation that is due to her. But, to be 
clear, that outstanding  balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, 
whilst taking account of any repayments  Mrs Q has made on that loan as though  they were 
applied against  the principal sum borrowed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mrs Q a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Qs complaint. MYJAR  Limited  should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2020.  
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9370113