K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has increased the premium  for 
their landlord  home insurance when they hadnt  made a claim following  damage  to a wall. It 
also hadnt provided enough assistance to them when a settlement payment wasnt received 
following fraud.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a landlords home insurance  policy with UKI for a rental property they 
own.
On 3 January  2018 a wall at the property was damaged by a falling tree during a storm.  On  
15 January Mr M contacted UKI about making a claim. That claim was registered  by UKI and 
an email confirming this and providing  information  about how payment would be made was 
sent to Mr M the same day.
UKI instructed a surveyor  who visited the property on 17 January 2018. Mr M was present 
and says the surveyor advised that they had the option of having  UKI arrange for the wall to 
be repaired, or of arranging  for it to be repaired themselves in which case  UKI would  make  a 
settlement payment to them for doing  so. UKI has said that this settlement figure is based on 
a schedule of works  put together by its surveyor. UKI has provided a copy of this schedule, 
and it states that the estimated cost of works was £4,150 + VAT.  
The surveyors report stated as follows:
Survey conclusion: The claimed  damage  to the boundary tree is the result  of a tree 
falling during storm Elenor, this was a widely  reported storm event. 
We have accepted liability for the damage to the insured's  wall on 
behalf of the insurers. However, we have repudiated the costs for 
removing the tree and any damage to the neighbours wall. The trees  
were in a conservation  areas and were  subject  to TPO
The policyholder has been offered both Cash Settlement and 
Network Contractor, however they have chosen to use their preferred 
route; Cash settlement
Liability conclusion: Valid claim
Outcome of claim:   Valid  claim - cash settled on site
Amount agreed with
the insured before
excess deducted :  £4150
Insured's preferred
method of payment
 if settlement  agreed
 on site: BACS
Reason why no 
signature was
captured: Technical guidance required over policy cover to remove tree
Ref: DRN91194262Mr and Mrs M say they didnt make any further  contact with UKI or the surveyor  after his visit 
as they decided to make their own arrangements for the wall to be repaired as they didnt 
want their premiums to be affected  by a claim.  
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs M received the renewal  documents for their home  insurance  and 
saw that their premium  had increased considerably, from £833.15 to £1,300.22. They  
contacted UKI on 26 March and were shocked  to be informed  that their premium had 
increased because  theyd made a claim.  They said that didnt  want  to make  a claim. Theyd 
only made an enquiry  about a claim.
UKI says it told them that a cheque had already been issued in accordance  with their 
request for a settlement  sum but that if they returned  this, the claim would be removed from 
their record.   They  were  told theyd been  sent a cheque for £4,050 (the estimated repair cost 
of £4,150 less the £100  policy excess)  and that this had been paid into a bank account in 
Mrs Ms name, and it quoted a sort code. Mr and Mrs M say they dont have any accounts  at 
that bank. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted Action  Fraud, the police and their bank. They  say they hadnt  been 
expecting a cheque  as they didnt  consider  theyd  made a claim. They hadnt contacted the 
surveyor or UKI again after the surveyors visit. Mrs M says that no cheque was ever 
received at their house. Theyre concerned about  how a cheque  had got into somebody 
elses hands, and had then been  cashed. 
UKIs fraud finance  team made a number  of enquiries, and were able to obtain a copy of the 
banked cheque. This clarified that UKIs  cheque had been paid in at the head office of Bank 
A and was then credited to an account  at Bank B. UKIs bank then contacted  Bank B which 
confirmed that the account to which the cheque was credited was in the name  of Mrs M. 
Bank B has said that when this account was set up, it carried  out all the required checks and 
had no reason to suspect  anything fraudulent. UKI recommended that they contact the 
police for any further action. 
UKI has provided a copy of its records. These  show that it received the surveyors  report  on 
29 January 2018.  On 30 January the record states:
 £4,050.00 Net payment agreed. PH (policyholder)  requested cheque. Raised      
payment
The next entry in UKIs record is on 26 March 2018  and states:
Insured is going  through  renewal wanted  to know details  of claim - ph is alleging that 
she didn't want to claim only wanted to discuss possible claim.----- Advised  - insured 
has requested payment  via cheque + has chased the payment
UKI believes it has done all it can for Mr and Mrs M. It says that a claim was made,  a cheque 
had been issued in Mrs Ms name and had been  sent to the correspondence  address 
provided. The cheque  had been  deposited into an account in Mrs Ms name and the funds  
had left its account. The matter had been  reviewed by its Finance Department and its Fraud 
team. The correct process had been  followed and there was nothing  more it could do. 
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied that UKI had addressed their concerns and brought  a 
complaint to this service.  They  say theres clear  evidence  of fraud, but that they arent  
claiming the £4,050 allegedly paid to them. They wanted this service to look into the case, 
catch the culprit,  and to have their claim  against  UKI nullified so the record  is clear  that they 
didnt receive any insurance  payment from UKI. Our investigator concluded that UKI hadnt 
Ref: DRN91194263done anything  wrong as its responsibility was to send  a cheque after agreeing a settlement, 
and this was what it had done.  
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with our investigators view,  although they accept that UKI 
followed its procedure correctly. They had neither received  nor deposited the cheque  UKI 
had sent. They dont consider that UKI has done enough and should  provide details of the 
account to which the cheque was credited  and evidence that there  is an account in Mrs Ms 
name at Bank B. They also want proof from UKI that the cheque has been cashed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I have to consider  whether UKI has done  anything wrong  here. If I think it has, I can require it 
to put it right in the most appropriate way. 
Firstly, Ive taken  into account  the additional information that Mr and Mrs M provided in 
response to our investigators view, and what they want UKI to provide. In my view, UKI has 
already provided  this information. Its provided confirmation that the cheque was cashed and 
the bank to which the payment was made,  Bank B. That bank has confirmed that the name  
of the account  into which  the cheque was paid was an account in a name  matching that on 
the cheque. UKI wont be able to provide any details of the account  to which the payment 
was made.  Only Bank B can do that.
Having listened  to the conversation between Mr M and UKI on 15 January 2018, Im satisfied 
that a claim was registered.  A claim number was issued, and UKI said the next step was for 
it to send out its surveyor. This was confirmed in an email to Mr and Mrs M. A survey was 
then undertaken,  a cash settlement was offered and was accepted by Mr M. That is 
recorded in the surveyors report quoted above,  which I have no reason to query.  A payment 
was then made by cheque. Ive noted  that the surveyors report says that payment will be 
made by BACS. But UKIs  records, also quoted above, state that on 30 January a cheque  
was requested by the policyholder.
But Mr and Mrs M say they didnt contact the surveyor  or UKI again after the surveyors visit. 
They therefore didnt  notify UKI or the surveyor which option they wished  to take. They  just 
went ahead  and had the wall repaired at their own expense as they didnt want there  to be 
any impact on their future premiums. They  therefore  hadnt expected  to receive  a settlement 
cheque from UKI, nor any increase in their premium.
But the evidence  I have from the surveyors report suggests that there was a conversation  
between Mr M and the surveyor in which Mr M elected to take a cash settlement. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for UKI to have sent a payment for the settlement sum without hearing more  
from Mr or Mrs M.
Ive seen from UKIs records the steps  that it took and the enquiries that it made after it was 
told that no payment  had been received to try to establish what  happened, and how its 
cheque ended up in a bank account which  Mrs M maintains isnt hers.  I dont think it couldve 
done anything  more than it did to assist  Mr and Mrs M here.
What prompted  Mr and Mrs M to contact UKI in March 2018 was the increase in their 
premium which followed  the claim UKI says they made. They  dont think  its fair that their 
premium has gone  up by so much  when they say they didnt make  a claim.
Ref: DRN91194264I asked UKI what Mr and Mrs Ms premium wouldve been if no claim had been made. It said 
that if the claim had been registered and then withdrawn prior to the renewal date,  therefore  
making the claim amount £0, the new premium would most likely have been 7% more than 
the previous years renewal premium to take into account index linking and inflation. Mr and 
Mrs Ms new premium  was more than this.
I think that UKI acted  reasonably in taking  the view that Mr and Mrs M had made  a claim and 
hadnt withdrawn  it. A claim  was confirmed in UKIs email of 15 January 2018.  And the 
surveyors report evidences that Mr M asked for a cash settlement, and a payment was duly 
made. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that UKI was at fault when making this payment. It sent a 
cheque to Mr and Mrs Ms address  as shown on its records. The fact that that cheque  found 
its way into the hands  of someone who deposited it into a bank account in Mrs Ms name,  
apparently after all necessary checks were  undertaken by the receiving bank, isnt 
something which I can say, on the information I have, that UKI is responsible for. 
So my view is that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to require UKI to act as if no claim 
had been made and adjust Mr and Mrs Ms new premium accordingly.  Its paid out £4,050, 
and in the absence of any evidence  that it was in any way at fault, I dont believe it would be 
fair to ask it to act as if it hadnt made  any such payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, and I dont 
require U K Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020. 
Nigel Bremner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9119426