K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VFS) applied for 
damage to his car at the end of his Hire Purchase (HP) Agreement were  unfair.  Also that 
VFS mis-sold the car to him telling  him he could transfer his payments made to a new car at 
the end of the HP term when he wasnt able to do so. He would like the charges waived.
background 
Mr B says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  for a new car with VFS in 2015.  He says 
the deal he accepted was attractive as VFS told him at the end of the contract period 
payments made could  be transferred to a new car .But when the HP period ended  in 2018 
VFS told him this wasnt an option.  He says had he known  this he wouldnt  have taken out 
the agreement.
He says apart from damage  to four alloy wheels he doesnt accept the other charges  that 
is for  damage to the front bumper, a broken back seat cover and a cut to the left hand front 
tyre.
VFS said when Mr B complained it removed a charge  for damage to rear bumper. But said 
the rest of the charges had been fairly  applied.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found the image  of the front bumper 
unclear.  As a result  VFS agreed  to waive this charge. She felt the other charges had been 
fairly applied  using industry standard British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
(BVRLA) Guidelines. She also found no evidence the car had been mis-sold.
Mr B didnt accept this view. He felt damage  to the seat was a manufacturing fault and not 
something he could  prove. He felt the tyre didnt need replacing as the as the car had 
passed its MOT.  In terms of mis- selling he said it was unrealistic to prove a verbal 
conversation.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view.
In terms of evidence  she said for damage  to the car seat it might have been reasonable to 
see evidence Mr B had complained about  this when he noticed  it. Also Mr B had the car for 
more than six months so the onus was on him to prove the seat was damaged due to a 
manufacturing fault. Given the damage was outside  of BVRLA guidelines  she felt it was fair 
VFS charged for it.
Similarly she found that although  the tyres they might be roadworthy, there was still 
noticeable damage which also fell outside  of BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear.
With regard to the transfer of payments she found no mention  of the transfer  of any 
payments on the car to a new agreement  within the contract Mr B signed. And no other 
information that could lead her to find that there  had been any mis-selling.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90670302Mr B feels  strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  
the same  conclusion as our ajudicator.
In terms of the damage to the car Ive seen  the contract that Mr B signed. This does allow 
VFS to charge for excess wear and tear. 
Given some  of the charges have been resolved  I dont intend to cover those here.
The outstanding charges  that Mr B disputes  are for damage to the tyre and the seat cover.  I 
have seen the inspection report on the car which does list these items. VFS uses BVRLA 
Guidelines to assess fair wear and tear. Our adjudicator has correctly referenced damage  to 
the tyre and seat as outside of BVRLA guidelines. 
Mr B says the inspector who carried out the report told him that the tyre was roadworthy so 
he doesnt feel its fair to charge for damage  to it. That may be the case  but the cut to the 
tyre does  fall outside of the BVRLA  guidelines for fair wear and tear. On that basis I dont 
think it unreasonable for VFS to charge  for this.
In terms of the damage to the seat cover Mr B says he never  noticed this. And has also 
pointed out the car was brand new when he got it and he never  used the back  seats so he 
thinks this must be a manufacturing  fault.  Unfortunately there is no evidence  to support this. 
So on that basis I dont  think  I can reasonably  conclude the seat cover was faulty. And as 
the damage identified falls outside of BVRLA guidelines I dont think it is unreasonable  for 
VFS to charge for this.
Looking at all of this information together I dont  feel I can reasonably ask VFS to waive  the 
outstanding charges for damage  as Mr B would  like.
The second  part of Mr Bs complaint is that he feels VFS mis-sold the HP agreement to him. 
He says he understood at the end of the contract period he would be able to transfer the 
payments he had made to another vehicle. 
I accept Mr Bs point that its difficult for him to prove a verbal  conversation.  But Mr B has 
told us the option to transfer payments made  was a key factor  in him taking out the 
agreement for the car. And had the option not been available he wouldnt have done so. On 
that basis I am surprised  he didnt  get something  in writing to confirm this. Given  I have no 
information to show that VFS offered that option to Mr B at the time he took out his 
agreement I cant fairly  conclude that VF  mis-sold  the agreement  to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
Ref: DRN90670303ombudsman
Ref: DRN9067030