K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC ("Lloyds") mis-sold him a Gold  account in 2003.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and she didn't think  that
Lloyds mis-sold the packaged account. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at his complaint  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Gs complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, Im 
not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr G was given a clear  choice in taking his packaged 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened having weighed  up what  Mr G and Lloyds have 
been able to provide me with.
From what  I've seen,  Mr G had a fee-free account with Lloyds before he took the fee paying 
Gold account. So I think that Mr G wouldve known Lloyds did fee-free  accounts  and that he 
could've had one of those if that's what he really wanted. Mr G says he was told that he had 
to have the Gold account in order to get a debit card and cheque  book. But based on his 
bank statements, he already held and used  these products prior to the upgrade. So I am not 
persuaded that this was the reason  that he took out the account. Overall I think  that Mr G 
was aware he didnt have to have a Gold account and he chose to have one anyway.
Lloyds says it recommended the account to Mr G. This means that Lloyds had to make fair 
recommendations by taking adequate  steps to ensure that the selected account  was a 
reasonable fit for Mr Gs circumstances.  Having thought about his circumstances and his 
actions since taking  the accounts,  I don't think that Lloyds recommending  the Gold account  
to Mr G was unfair or inappropriate. I think that Mr G had a need  for some of the benefits  and 
he could've used them.  And it looks to me that the account chosen was, on the whole, a 
reasonable match when, the benefits  Mr G had a need for and may have wanted, are taken 
into account. 
To explain, at the time the Gold account was taken out the main benefit  that the account 
came with was Travel insurance,  (breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance  was added 
later to the account  in 2004). Mr G has explained that he did travel on holiday and as the 
Gold account was the cheapest account that came with travel  insurance I cannot see that the 
recommendation for the Gold account  was inappropriate.
Mr G has said that the travel insurance  was not suitable for him as he had to pay for medical 
screening and trip extensions and he was not told about this during the sale.  But all Lloyds 
could have done during  the sale was set out to Mr G that he needed to declare his medical  
conditions which it seems  to have done as Mr G did contact the insurer.  Also had Mr G been 
Ref: DRN94047212told exactly what he would have to pay to be covered for his trips I dont think that this 
wouldve stopped  him from agreeing to the account. I say this because when he did find out 
about this he kept the account.
There may have been other things about  the benefits that Mr G was not told. But I cant  see 
anything specific that Mr G was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to take out 
the account.
 
Mr G has said that Lloydss  report of his benefit usage is inaccurate. But I am not looking at 
whether or how often  Mr G has made use of the account benefits  to determine whether the 
account was recommended correctly. In this instance regardless of whether Mr G did use the 
benefits as indicated from Lloyds, I think that it is clear that Mr G was relying on and had a 
need for the travel insurance  - which was the main benefit when the account  was taken out. 
So I think that the recommendation was reasonable.
I note Mr Gs comments in relation to the use of the other benefits such as mobile phone 
insurance and breakdown  cover.  But these  were not actually benefits at the time of the sale. 
So they cant be reasons as to why the sale was incorrect  in the first instance.
Mr G may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that he hasn't benefitted from the 
account as much as he'd initially hoped and expected to when he upgraded. And given what 
he may have read and heard about  packaged  bank  accounts in general, I can to some extent 
understand why he might  now think his account was mis-sold. But I think  that Mr G chose to 
accept what, on the face of things, appear to have been reasonable recommendation by 
Lloyds to upgrade  his account to a packaged account. So having thought about all the 
information provided and listened  to everything  Mr Gs said, I dont think  that his packaged 
account was mis-sold  to him.
Mr G has said that he tried to downgrade the account on a number of occasions. But I cannot  
see anything to suggest that Mr G made a formal request  to downgrade his account. So I 
dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong  in relation to this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404721