K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that the advice she received from Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life)  to start a free standing additional voluntary contribution 
(FSAVC) plan was unsuitable. 
background
Mrs B has been helped in making her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). 
But for ease I will generally  refer in this decision  to all communication as having been  with, 
and from, Mrs B. And for similar reasons although the advice to take the FSAVC was given 
by a predecessor  company  of Sun Life, I will refer to Sun Life as the responsible  business  
throughout.
Mrs B was advised to take FSAVC policies by Sun Life in 1993 and in 1997.  Sun Life has 
already concluded that it didnt give enough information to Mrs B when it made its 
recommendation to her in 1997.  It has agreed to calculate whether she needs  to be paid any 
compensation in relation to that sale. So Mrs B has said that she only wants  this Service  to 
consider her complaint about the advice she received from Sun Life in 1993.
In 1993, Sun Life completed a fact find with Mrs B which recorded that she was aged 36, 
and had just begun a new part- time job. She was a member of her new employers 
occupational pension scheme,  and the fact find recorded that she wanted  to boost her 
retirement provisions to compliment her existing provision.
Sun Life recommended Mrs B should increase her retirement provision by contributing to a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC) to age 60 using a managed 
fund. Mrs B continued to make contributions  to the scheme until she retired  in September  
2016 and began to draw  her pension benefits.
In 2018, Mrs B complained to Sun Life about the advice she had been given. In particular 
she was concerned that Sun Life hadnt  explained  her options around making AVCs to her 
occupational scheme and had instead focused solely on the potential returns from FSAVCs. 
She believed  shed been advised to take out a plan with a much  higher charging structure 
and that had resulted in her receiving  lower returns than she believed  she would have got 
from AVCs.
As I said earlier Sun Life upheld the complaint in relation to the advice given in 1997  stating 
that it hadnt taken  into account  the cost implications between the AVC and FSAVC, thus 
Mrs B couldnt have made an informed decision.  However, in relation  to the advice provided 
in 1993 it found that the reason for selecting the FSAVC was due to the flexibility  it offered in 
the event of a change  in employment. Sun Life suggested that Mrs Bs occupation at the 
time meant it was more  likely  she would  move between various employers.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint in respect of the advice provided in 1993  
and felt it should be upheld. He noted a regulatory  update from May 1996 which  he said was 
not new guidance but the regulator re-stating  and making its position  clear. He felt that Mrs B 
was not in a fully informed  position  as there was nothing to suggest that there  was any 
mention of the possible advantages of AVCs, such as significantly lower charges.
Ref: DRN90931842In addition, he considered Sun Lifes recommendation was unjustified  and that there was a 
lack of evidence  to suggest that Mrs B had indeed required  the flexibility  offered by a FSAVC 
as suggested.  There was no evidence to suggest  that Mrs B would be changing  employer or 
had a history of doing so, therefore he didnt  feel the reasons  put forward  by Sun Life for the 
recommendation were  appropriate.  
Sun Life didnt agree.  Amongst a number of points it stated  that it believed  the regulatory  
update from 1996 was new guidance,  and that the advice it gave in 1993 was only required 
to meet  the conditions of the LAUTRO code. Furthermore, it suggested that generally people 
undertaking similar jobs to Mrs B at the time would be likely to regularly change employment. 
It thought this was sufficient evidence to conclude that Mrs B required flexibility.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mrs B accepts my decision it 
is legally  binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
The advice that Mrs B is complaining about was given to her almost 30 years ago. So it isnt 
entirely surprising  that Sun Life might not have a full set of documentation from the time. And 
for the same reasons,  it is understandable  that Mrs B might not have a full recollection  of 
what happened either. So where the evidence is unclear or there are conflicts I have made  
my decision  based  on the balance  of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
I think that the regulations that were  applicable to the advice  given in 1993 were issued by 
the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO)  in 1988. In those 
rules LAUTRO said that advisors  should;
have regard to the consumer's financial position  generally and to any rights  they may 
have under a workplace pension; and
give the consumer  all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in 
question.
By 1996 regulation of these matters  had moved to the Personal  Investment Authority (PIA).  
In May 1996  the PIA suggested  that when advising on the sale of a FSAVC plan advisors 
should;
draw the consumer's attention to the AVC plan 
discuss the generic  differences between  the FSAVC and AVC 
direct  the consumer to his employer or the occupational pension scheme for more 
information on the AVC options
It is my understanding that the PIA saw this as a clarification of the existing  rules,  rather  than 
introducing totally  new requirements. But I accept that, at the time, many  providers saw this 
as a significant change,  and made corresponding revisions to their sales process. Im not 
however persuaded that in 1993  the selling environment  was so different that it would be 
unreasonable to not take account of the suggestions  made by the PIA in 1996.
Ref: DRN90931843So in relation to the advice given to Mrs B in 1993  I think I should consider  whether Sun Life;
 
pointed out that AVCs  were available;
explained that money purchase  AVCs were  likely to provide better  value for money  
than FSAVCs; and
recommended the consumer finds  out about their AVC options.
Given the time that has passed, and the information that I have  been  provided with, I cannot  
conclude that these tests were  met by Sun Life. In particular I have considered  a sales  
brochure that was produced at the time.  That document  gives  little incentive for a consumer 
to undertake further research into the AVC options  that might  be available  through an 
occupational pension scheme.  In fact the brochure goes as far as saying, in answer to the 
question of who needs the plan,  that it is needed  by Almost everyone who is in a company 
pension scheme. So on balance I would conclude  it is unlikely that Sun Life met the tests  
I have set out above.
In its response to Mrs B, Sun Life provided its explanation about  why it thought the FSAVC  
plan had been sold to her. Of course, given the passage of time, it is unlikely that Mrs B will 
remember the reason  the advice was given.  And I havent seen any contemporaneous  
documents setting  out the rationale for the advice. So I have to consider that Sun Life is 
looking back  at what happened  and considering what it thinks  is most likely  to have taken 
place.
Around the time the advice was provided,  Mrs B had started a new job. Sun Life thinks it 
most likely that the FSAVC plan was considered suitable because  it would be likely that 
Mrs B would move to a new employer  over the life of the plan. And Id agree that if that were  
the case, it might be a reasonable  reason for Sun Life to have considered the FSAVC plan to 
be more suitable  than an AVC scheme  tied to a single employer.
But I havent seen  anything that would  make me think  Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time, or 
the job that she was doing, made  it likely that she would leave her employer. And, although 
I am of course applying  the benefit  of hindsight here, Mrs B didnt in fact leave  her employer 
until she retired in 2016. So I think it reasonable here to base my assessment on an 
assumption that she intended  to remain with that employer for the foreseeable future. It 
would be for Sun Life to show  me evidence from the time that suggested that wasnt likely to 
be the case. And from the information  that had been  provided, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mrs B was planning  on changing her employer.
So I cannot conclude  that the advice given to Mrs B was appropriate. I cant see a reason to 
conclude that it would  be likely there  was a good  reason a FSAVC plan would be more 
beneficial to her than taking AVCs with her occupational scheme. I think there is a risk that 
Mrs B wasnt  given  enough information  about  the options that were  available to her. And 
I think with the benefit of better information Mrs B might well have chosen  to pay AVCs  to 
her occupational scheme instead since the charges  for doing so would have  most  likely been 
far lower.
So Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint and require Sun Life to perform a calculation  to assess  
whether Mrs B has lost out as a result of the inappropriate  advice.
Ref: DRN90931844putting things right
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance  with the regulators  FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So since  the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005  and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
Sun Life should pay an additional  sum of £150 to Mrs B to reflect  the trouble and upset this 
matter will have caused due to the disruption  to her retirement planning.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct  Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9093184