K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
When we look at the sale of a PPI policy there  are a number of things we consider. Broadly 
summarised we look at whether the consumer  was eligible, was it made clear  that the policy 
was optional  was the consumer given the choice  to decide whether they wanted to take 
the policy or not. And was the policy recommended to the consumer, and if so was it 
suitable. If it wasnt recommended  then was the consumer given enough information to 
make an informed decision. We also look at whether the costs  were shown. And if there 
were failings in the sale we look to see if the consumer would have done anything  different.
After careful consideration of the evidence I have, and what both Mr M and BOS have told 
me, Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.  I know Mr M will be extremely disappointed with 
the outcome so Id like to explain how Ive reached the decision I have.
did Mr M have  a fair choice to take out PPI?
Ive seen the application form Mr M completed  when he took out his credit card via a postal 
application, and it included a separate section which asked Mr M to consent to the following 
by ticking the boxes - one of which was to take the PPI. Mr M has ticked  to say he did want  
the cover  and then signed the application  form. Mr M says he thought this was an instruction 
and he thought he had to have the policy in order to get the credit card.
I know Mr M feels very strongly about  this. But I dont agree that the request to tick a box to 
consent was an instruction.  I think it indicates Mr M had a choice  he could equally have 
left the box blank in order to not take the policy. And the type of application Mr M completed 
shows that he applied  for his card via the post  and so without  any involvement of the 
businesss staff. This means  that he would have been for him to decide  whether to tick the 
box to select PPI if he wanted it, or otherwise,  and without  anyone elses  input. 
So with all of this in mind, I think BOS made it clear that Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out. 
did Mr M receive advice to take the policy?
As this was a postal  application, Im satisfied  that BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
As I dont think BOS advised Mr M to take out the PPI, it didn't have to make sure the policy 
was suitable for his needs. But it did have to give him enough information  so he could decide  
for himself whether to take out the PPI. 
Ref: DRN97461102was Mr M given  information that was clear, fair and not misleading?
I cant be certain what information Mr M was given  and I accept its possible the information 
BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been  including  the cost of 
the policy. But as I mentioned earlier, I think its likely he chose to take out the PPI. So it 
would appear  he was interested in this type of cover. Ive also considered  whether he would 
have taken it in any event, despite the possibility of Mr M not being given all of the 
information that he should have.  After doing  so I think Mr M would  have taken out the PPI. I 
say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the PPI.
Mr M was employed and had some  sick pay of at least  eight weeks.  But the PPI 
would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mr M would  have received, and for longer  
 for up to 12 months.  So I think this could have been a benefit  to him when his sick 
pay ended.
Any savings he might have had at the time could  have remained intact for longer, be 
used for other essential expenditure or kept for their original purpose.
Mr M doesnt  seem to have been  affected by any of the exclusions in the policy   a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example, so he was eligible for the full benefits.
While  I dont doubt that Mr Ms family would have wanted  to help him financially if 
they could, that would depend on their own circumstances at the time,  which  could 
change, so I dont think  their help could be guaranteed.
It appears that Mr M could  afford the policy at the time and I havent  seen anything 
showing that he had a need to keep his costs down.  
Mr M has referred to another case reviewed by this service but we look at each individual  
case on their own particular  merits so I cant comment on the other case. 
In Mr Ms response to the adjudicators opinion he has referred to the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA), and its rules  and guidance. In particular, DISP  the dispute 
resolution rules about how a business should  deal with PPI complaints. 
I would like to assure  Mr M that when  considering  his complaint, I have taken into account  
the relevant rules and regulations. And in doing so, Ive considered  in accordance  with the 
rules that if there was a failing in the sales process  for the policy, would Mr M have  done  
anything differently. And for the reasons given above, I dont think  he would. 
So overall, despite the lack of information  given  to Mr M, in particular about the cost of the 
policy - I think  Mr M would have taken the policy anyway  so I dont think the policy  was 
mis-sold and I wont be asking BOS to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. 
But BOS  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  BOS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN97461103what the business needs  to do
BOS has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BOS should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest  Mr M paid 
because of that.
BOS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference  between  
what Mr M owes and what he would have  owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BOS should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest 
if Mr M paid off his credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Because of what I have  explained above,  my final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-
sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019 .
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9746110