K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) gave her incorrect 
information that meant she was unable to meet the requirements for an account incentive.
background
Ms C asked AESEL on 10 December 2018 what the anniversary date was for her account. 
The account  had an incentive that if she spent £20,000 by the anniversary  date she would 
be entitled to an airline companion voucher. Ms C says AESEL told her the anniversary date 
was in April when in fact it was 12 December. She says she was planning a trip to Australia 
and would have  used the voucher for a business class  flight.  Ms C would like AESEL to pay 
her compensation for the flight  cost of about  £6,000  and for her annual fee to be refunded.
AESEL accepts it made a mistake when Ms C called it and its apologised and paid £50 
compensation. But it says even if it had given the correct information, Ms C would have had 
a day to spend about £16,000 and for those transactions to have been posted  to her 
account. AESEL  says Ms C has had an account  since 2008 and her account  statements 
have information  about the anniversary dates.
Ms C brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought AESEL had dealt fairly  with it 
by paying what  he thought was appropriate  compensation. The adjudicator didnt  think it 
likely Ms C could  have  arranged for her credit limit to be increased from £9,600 and then 
spend over £16,000 which needed  to be posted to her account  within  a day.
Ms C doesnt accept that view and says she has other credit cards with far higher credit 
limits. She says she is a sophisticated credit card user and could easily have spent over 
£16,000 at the time. Ms C says the information on the account  statements is in the small 
print and says in May 2019 asked AESEL  to increase her credit limit which it did to over 
£20,000. She says that if AESEL had given  her the correct information she could have 
increased the limit and made the spending that same day.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reasons. I realise  Ms C will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I have looked  at Ms Cs statements and I dont think the information  on the companion 
voucher was in the small print of that statement. Im satisfied the account  statements which  
Ms C would have seen contained  a section with what  I think was a large  heading of 
companion voucher. Im also satisfied that under that large prominent heading was 
information on the required spend and the date the spending needed to be made  by. I also 
think Ms C had been an AESEL member  for some  time and ought to have been  aware  of 
that anniversary date which  doesnt  appear  to have changed since  2008. So even in 
circumstances where  Ms C was given  incorrect information by AESEL about that date. I still 
would have expected Ms C to have been aware  of it especially as she says she is a 
sophisticated user of credit cards. 
Im satisfied on balance  that it would have been  unlikely that Ms C could have arranged the 
credit card increase to allow her to potentially spend about £16,000 within about a 24 hour 
period. And for all of that spending to have  been  processed and billed to her account within 
Ref: DRN96125522that same  time period.  I think by the time Ms C called AESEL it was too late for all of that to 
be achieved. And in any event I cant see that Ms C has explained what she intended to 
spend that money on simply to obtain a companion  voucher worth significantly less that that 
potential spending.  I dont think it matters that Ms C did some months later receive an 
increase to her credit limit. And I dont think it follows that if Ms C had asked for that increase 
in December 2018 she would have received it there and then 
There is no doubt that AESEL did give Ms C incorrect information.  But Im satisfied its fairly 
apologised for that mistake and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation.
Overall as I dont think it realistic that Ms C could have met the requirements for the voucher 
entitlement I cant fairly order  AESEL to pay the compensation Ms C would like. I accept Ms 
C is unlikely to accept  my decision but I think that brings an end to what  we in trying to sort 
out this complaint informally  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612552