K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading  as Egg, mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in October 1999.  He applied for the credit  card and PPI online.  
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a civil servant.  He has told us that his employer would 
have given him six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, if he was off sick. Hes 
also told us he had savings/insurance worth between 3 and 6 months pay. Mr F has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and serious 
illness  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Fs credit  card 
balance in the event of a successful claim for accident and sickness  or unemployment. At 
the time,  it cost 59p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Egg sent us screenshots in 2017 to show  that the credit  card account was still running at that 
time.
Mr Fs representative  made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf. I wont  
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Fs 
representative said:
Egg failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time, including the 
ICOB/ICOBS rules. In those circumstances, applying the regulators rules  and 
guidance for businesses on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, the 
complaint should be upheld.  
Mr F was advised to take the policy, despite  what Egg says about  there  being no 
advice given, and was misled into believing that claims for backache  would be 
covered when, in fact, the policy limited such claims;
The true costs of the policy, including interest, werent disclosed; 
The exclusions and limitations of cover were  such  that theyd be considered  unfair 
under the Unfair  Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR); and
The information Mr F received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing valuable  cover,  but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope 
of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Both parties have seen  the 
adjudicators opinion and have been given the opportunity to respond.  Mr F disagrees with 
the adjudicators  opinion  for several  reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold. I also explained  why I considered Eggs offer to pay back to Mr F any 
Ref: DRN98768282commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the premium was fair. I gave the 
parties the opportunity to respond  before I considered the complaint again.
Egg said it had nothing to add in response  to my provisional decision other than to confirm 
its offer regarding commission and profit share. 
Mr F said he maintained that the box to choose  PPI during the online application had been 
pre-ticked, meaning  that he wasnt really  given a choice about  taking out the policy.
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBS) arent applicable to this complaint. Nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance  (PERG). 
The same can be said of The Unfair  Contract  Terms  and Consumer Notices Regulatory  
Guide (UNFCOG),  which explains how the FCA will apply its powers under the regulations 
rather than containing  comprehensive guidance on the regulations themselves, and which  
was not first published  until 2007.  
The FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules  (DTR)  Mr F refers  to on the other 
hand focus on, for instance, periodic financial reporting and corporate  governance  and, as 
such, are not of direct relevance  to this complaint. 
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgement in Plevin  about s.140  of that Act and the rules  and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgement  are applicable. Ill return to this issue later in the 
decision.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time,  which  I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In particular  the Association of British Insurers General  Insurance  Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Ref: DRN98768283Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code . This set out a framework of general 
principles within which ABI members  and intermediaries were expected to sell general 
insurance, including PPI policies like this.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI, I consider  
these publications  to be indicative of the standards of good practice  expected of 
intermediaries like Egg at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these  codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs 
case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Egg 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Fs complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Egg gave advice, whether it advised Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Egg gave  Mr F sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and Egg 
before and after I issued my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Fs mis-sale  
complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN98768284did Mr F know he had a choice?
Egg had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
From what  we know of Eggs  sales at the time and the online process  an applicant had to 
follow, the web page relating to PPI would have had yes and no options so that Mr F could 
either agree to, or decline, the policy. Eggs record of the sale shows  that PPI was added as 
part of Mr Fs online  application. Mr F has said that the yes option  was pre-ticked. However, 
from the screenshots weve  seen of the relevant  web page,  this was not the case  and both 
options were blank, with either yes or no having  to be selected before an applicant  could 
move on to the next stage of the process.  Overall,  taking  everything into account,  I consider 
it is most  likely that Barclays presented the policy to Mr F as being optional and he chose to 
take it out.
did Egg provide advice?
Egg says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr F disagrees.  
I accept the sale took place  online, as Mr F and Egg agree. I cant  see that there was any 
direct contact between Mr F and any of Eggs representatives that would have provided it 
with the opportunity to give him advice  about the policy.
Mr F originally said in his PPI questionnaire that he didnt think the sale was advised.  
However, following  the adjudicators assessment, Mr Fs representative  has now said that 
they think the sale was advised.
Ive not seen anything which persuades me that Egg made a personal recommendation that 
he take out the policy, such as evidence showing either that he was asked a series  of 
questions to allow Egg to gain an understanding of his specific  circumstances  and needs  or 
that he was led to reasonably believe hed been  given advice. Rather it alerted Mr F to the 
fact that he could take out the policy and gave him information about  it.
So, looking  at what happened when  Egg sold Mr F the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  Egg didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr F. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr F to make an informed choice  
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Looking at the information provided to Mr F at the time, I dont think Egg gave Mr F the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  online. I can see that Egg described the PPI policy as providing  cover  
against unemployment, accidents,  sickness, death and serious illness. It also informed Mr F 
that the policy helped cover  his card repayments  at the cost of 59p per £100 of his monthly  
statement balance.
Ref: DRN98768285The information provided would have given Mr F a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Eggs responsibility to draw to Mr Fs attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded Egg did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr F, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Egg adequately drew to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Egg gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  to the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did Eggs  shortcomings have  on Mr F? To what extent  did Mr F suffer  loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that Egg didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr F. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr F suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr F would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had Egg done  things properly. 
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr F had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr F chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr F thought he was getting isnt 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr F has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr F ought  reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover 10% of his outstanding balance  this was 
likely set out on the screens hed have seen when he applied  for the policy.  
I accept that Egg didnt  make clear the ongoing  cost information or that the policy  limited  the 
number of monthly benefit payments  to 12 per claim. But the policy  would have helped  
reduce Mr Fs outgoings at a difficult time and might potentially help preserve Mr Fs sick pay 
and savings for other use. In addition,  the policy would more  than cover the contractual  
monthly minimum payment of 2% and had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in 
full in certain circumstances. So while Mr F didnt know  some  things,  the ultimate position in 
Ref: DRN98768286the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably  have thought 
from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment or 
advice had been suggested in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and had 
recurred within 24 months after the start,  or had been diagnosed or led him to 
experience significant  and substantive symptoms during the same periods; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr F be unable to 
do his own work,  or other work that his experience, education or training would allow. 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr F pause for thought  and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy. 
For example, back pain and mental health  conditions are common  problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr F might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely hed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest hed have  been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
for example, Mr F didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent 
employment. 
I still think Mr F had some  good  reasons to take the policy out. The evidence  about Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. 
He was eligible  for its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations  and 
exclusions, could  have proved valuable to him should the insured risks have become a 
reality. 
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any other job which, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what hed have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr F was unable  (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances  that hed 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr F would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits hed likely have received and his 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN98768287In saying that, Ive taken  into account what Mr F has said about the following paragraph in 
the terms and conditions of the policy:
The Insurer may at any time change any term of condition of this Policy including  the 
premium payable by giving not less than 30 days written notice of such change  to 
You at Your  last known  address.
Mr F says that this gives the firm the right to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium, and 
this is a contractual term which  is unfair.  
Ive considered the argument carefully.
In this case the complaints against the seller of the policy,  Egg, whos also the lender, but 
who isnt the insurer. The right to vary the cover and premium  is a right thats been put into 
the contract  by the insurer and can only be exercised by the insurer. So what the insurer can 
and cant do and whether its acted unfairly  or not isnt something I can consider here. My 
consideration in this case is whether  Egg acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr F when it 
sold him the policy. And if it did not, whether and to what extent I think  hes lost out as a 
result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Egg should  have  done more  to clearly bring the 
contractual term about the insurers right to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium to 
Mr Fs attention. And, having done  so, I think it should have done more. I think  this was a 
significant term. So I think Mr F would have wanted to know about this. Because Mr F 
wasnt clearly  told, I dont think  Egg acted fairly and reasonably towards  him.
But even if Egg had done more to highlight the term clearly  to Mr F, I dont think this would 
have made  a difference to his decision to buy the PPI for the reasons Ive already 
explained.
Im also mindful that the policy terms and conditions go on to give both parties the right to 
terminate the policy  with 30 days notice at any time throughout  the duration of the 
contract. So, as and when any new terms were proposed by the insurer,  Mr F had a 
reasonable amount of time to consider whether he wanted to continue  with the policy.  
If Mr F didnt like any newly proposed terms and conditions, he could have chosen not to 
accept them and sought cover elsewhere  if he still wanted this type of cover.  But I can 
see that there were  at least two occasions where  changes were made to the terms and 
conditions following which Mr Fs policy remained active. One was in 2004  when, among 
other things,  the premium  increased slightly from 74p to 79p (Egg says there were no 
further premium increases  after 2004).  Another was when the insurer changed  in 2008.
Not all of the changes made on those occasions  meant the policy  terms were  less 
favourable to Mr F. For example, in 2004, the maximum monthly  benefit  limit of £1,500 was 
removed, as was the claim  limit of £15,000  for life and serious  illness claims.
So overall, while I accept Egg should have done more  to bring  the above paragraph from the 
terms and conditions to Mr Fs attention, for the reasons Ive explained above I dont  think 
hed have been put off buying the policy if Egg had done more.
Ref: DRN98768288While the above  policy term  together with some  or all of the other  policy terms Mr F has 
highlighted  could  well be considered to be unfair, as I say it would be the insurer  that 
would seek to rely on them in assessing  any claims and not Egg. 
Im also aware that Mr F thinks  Egg misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Eggs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Egg failed to act fairly  
and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information  it provided  but 
because the overall  information Egg gave  Mr F, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the 
standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing 
information about an insurance  policy. 
The above  means Barclays doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr F about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr F any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr F the difference  
between what Mr F owes and what he would  have owed if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr F 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN98768289my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, my decision is that I dont  find that the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank 
UK PLC doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9876828