K820x#14complaint
Ms C and Mr B say HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms C bought the policy in 1995  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  This was a 
standalone policy that could cover  any mortgage,  not just the one Ms C took out at the time. 
The policy was called  Mortgage Payment Protection  but is referred to by the generic term 
PPI.
Ms C thinks  she applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch but due to the time that 
has passed, HSBC  records  are unclear as to how Ms C applied  for her mortgage and PPI 
policy. 
At the start,  the policy provided cover for Ms C for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  towards Ms Cs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £17.82 a month. 
In 2003 the policy was converted  to a joint policy with Mr B. A new policy was not sold at this 
time, Mr B was added to the policy cover  with the benefit of the policy to then be split 50% 
each. In 2012 the policy was converted back to cover Ms C only.  Throughout the changes 
the cost and benefit of the policy remained the same.
As the policy was sold only to Ms C in 1995,  and she remained on the policy throughout, her 
circumstances are the main ones  to consider. Mr B was not a party  to the PPI was it was 
taken out, but his circumstances  were relevant for the time he was a joint policyholder so do 
need to be considered in part.
At the time the policy was sold, Ms C was employed  as a Factory  Worker. She has told us 
she was entitled  to up to 12 months  sick pay and would also have received redundancy pay. 
She has also told us her other means  of paying her mortgage was her Mortgage  Repayment 
Protector, however she may be a little confused as that is the product she is complaining 
about in this complaint. Ms S has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mr B has only been able to provide limited information about his employment when he was 
added to the policy in 2003.  He says he was employed as a Factory  Worker and would  have 
been entitled to good employee benefits  including up to 12 months sick pay and redundancy 
pay.  Mr B has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
HSBC has very limited information  about the mortgage Ms C took out but says it was 
redeemed prior to 2005, although it has been  unable to provide an exact date. It is possible 
this happened  in 2003 when Ms C may have transferred to a joint mortgage  with Mr B and 
the PPI was amended to joint cover.
Ms Cs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Cs representative says:
 
Ref: DRN98019482HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Ms C about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms C and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms C received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
As the policy was sold directly to Ms C only, I have  focussed mainly  on her circumstances. 
Mr B was only added  to the policy for a period of time when it seems a joint mortgage was 
held, so when  the policy was amended in 2003 and 2012, a new policy was not sold.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms C and Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN98019483This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself, which the PPI was originally  taken  out with, concluded  before 
2005. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms C and Mr Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Ms C and Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN98019484Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Ms C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Ms C sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms C, Mr B and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Ms C and Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Ms C know she had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Neither Ms C nor HSBC  can provide  a great  deal of information about  the time of the sale. 
Although Ms C says PPI was not discussed,  she has quite  clearly  in her submissions 
referred to the Mortgage Repayment  Protector.  And her indications  are she had and wanted  
this product.  She has indicated that she had this as a means of paying  her mortgage. So it 
seems Ms C may be a little confused, or not recall well the details from the time, which isnt 
surprising as it was some 25 years ago. But Mortgage  Repayment Protector  is PPI. PPI is 
the generic name for insurance that protects  repayments including  mortgages. And it seems 
from what Ms C may recall that she knew she had, and seems to have  wanted,  this product.
So taking everything into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that Ms C 
didnt consent  to the policy or that HSBC misrepresented the policy as being  compulsory,   I 
think its more likely  that Ms C knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC says it has no records  to indicate if advice was provided. Ms C says there  was no 
advice given. Taking account of the limited  information provided  by both parties, Im 
accepting that HSBC did not provide advice, as Ms C has indicated.  
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Ms C. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
Ref: DRN98019485highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms C was given a broad description  of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms C would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms C agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Ms C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Cs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Cs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Cs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Ms C? To what extent did Ms C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Ms C. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered 
Ref: DRN98019486loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Ms C says she would  not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As Ive found above, Ms C chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms C thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms C has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms C knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it is unclear if HSBC told her the exact premium  at the point she applied for the 
policy. Having said that, it seems likely Ms C would have been told the cost before the policy 
started and she has paid for the policy for many years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with her expectations  at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
HSBC at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Ms C would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure at the time she agreed to take out the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Ms C would  get back in return 
in the event Ms C made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Cs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did. And in fact, Ms 
C did make  a successful claim on the policy in 2012  and this does not seem  to have been 
different to Ms Cs expectations of what a claim  amount would have paid out. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Ms C 
knew about or ought to have known about  and for which  treatment had been sought 
in the 12 months  prior to the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms C be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified her to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms C pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms C from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Cs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Ms C was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
Ref: DRN98019487that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Ms C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I have also considered the same matters in relation to Mr B when he was on the policy.  
Again, he was eligible for its benefits  and from the information provided  wasnt caught by any 
of the significant exclusions. So during  his time as a joint policy holder the policy would have 
been of value to both Ms C and Mr B.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms C would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms C had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her job 
but also any similar job, it might have played  into her thinking  about what  she would do. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Ms C was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
HSBC may not have  told Ms C that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than Ms C would  have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms C would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly loan repayments  would have been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms C would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms C would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Cs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN98019488Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms C would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms C 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms C believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Ms C compensation,  as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms C thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Ms C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Cs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms C and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms C and Mr B in a better  position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN98019489Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9801948