K820x#14complaint
Ms C is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV  declined a claim 
she made on a group  medical insurance policy she has with her employer. Shes also 
unhappy with the service  she received.  
background
Ms C has multiple sclerosis (MS). She made  a claim  on the group medical insurance policy 
she has the benefit of through her employer to cover the costs  of her undergoing autologous 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT).  She hoped  that this would halt the 
progression of her condition or reverse the effects  of it.
CIGNA turned down  this claim saying this type of treatment wasnt covered under the terms 
of the policy. Ms C disagrees;  she doesnt  think CIGNA has fairly declined the claim. Shes 
also unhappy about the service she received from CIGNA when declining  the claim.  
Ms C says she subsequently took out a loan to pay for the AHSCT  treatment,  which was 
undertaken at a private hospital  in or around  March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Cs complaint. She didnt think  CIGNA had acted unfairly  
by declining  the claim. Nor did she conclude that CIGNAs service  was unsatisfactory. 
Ms C disagreed. She requested that her complaint be escalated  to an ombudsman to 
decide. So the matter has been  passed to me to look at everything afresh and make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Ms C will be very disappointed by my decision but I dont think  CIGNA has done anything 
wrong. 
declining Mrs Cs claim:
CIGNA has put forward a number of reasons to decline Ms Cs claim including:
-the treatment Ms C wanted  covered  isnt evidence  based;
-the policy doesnt cover treatments  involving  stem cell treatment; and
-the policy doesnt cover treatment  for chronic  conditions. 
Ive considered all of the reasons put forward and Im satisfied that CIGNA has acted  fairly  
and reasonably by declining  the claim. Ill explain  why.
The policy excludes  cover  for treatment  of chronic conditions.
Ive seen a letter from a consultant haematologist, written in support of Ms C undergoing 
AHSCT, dated September 2018. He explains that this treatment can halt further  progression  
of MS, relapses or lesions. He also says it can convert a chronic disease to a disease that 
can go into long term remission. So, he doesnt  believe  the definition of chronic condition 
applies in Ms Cs case.
Ref: DRN95399042Under the policy chronic is defined as:
a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more  of the following characteristics: 
 it needs  ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,  
check-ups, and/or tests; 
 it needs  ongoing or long-term control or relief  of symptoms; 
 it requires  your rehabilitation  or for you to be specially trained to cope with it; 
 it continues  indefinitely;  
 it has no known  cure;  
 it comes back or is likely  to come back.
Im satisfied at the time Ms C made a claim on her policy, she had a chronic condition. The 
NHS advises  that theres currently no known cure for MS and its a lifelong condition.  And 
the consultant seems  to accept that MS is a chronic  condition  albeit  if the treatment Ms C 
wanted covered  was successful, in some cases the condition has gone  into remission.
Treatment is defined as: 
surgical or medical services that are needed  to diagnose, relieve  or cure a disease,  
illness or injury.
From the medical evidence Ive seen, AHSCT is a medical service  available  for people  with 
MS which is intended to hopefully halt or reduce the progress of their condition.  So I dont 
think CIGNA  has acted unreasonably by classing it as a chronic condition, and concluding 
that the treatment  she required wasnt covered under clause  4.5 of the policy.
Further, the treatment  Ms C wanted covered  involved  stem  cell transplant  treatment. The 
policy doesnt cover  treatment to remove, store and reintroduce very early cells (or stem  
cells) that produce blood cells, and any associated treatment (clause 4.3d). I dont think  
CIGNA has unreasonably  relied on that term to decline the claim. 
I note what Ms C says about needing  chemotherapy  as part of the medical procedure,  and, 
at the very least, the costs of this element of the procedure should  be considered separately 
to the stem cell transplant. But AHSCT  is an immune  suppressing  chemotherapy treatment 
combined with reinfusion of blood  stem cells to rebuild the immune  system. So the 
chemotherapy forms an integral part of the stem cell transplant.  
As the policy also excludes any associated treatment to do with the removal, storage and 
reintroduction of stem  cells, I dont think CIGNA  has unfairly  declined  to cover  the 
chemotherapy element  of the procedure. 
The policy also doesnt cover claims involving treatments that arent evidence based  which  
is defined as:
treatment  which  has been resea rched,  reviewed and recognised  by:
-the National  Institute of Health  and Care Excellen ce (NICE); or
-CIGNA s Medical  Advisory  Panel; or
-another  source  recognised  by CIGNA, UK Branch.
Ref: DRN95399043Ive taken into account Ms Cs comments about  the treatment she wanted covered and what  
she says about  it being evidence based  and also the contents of the letter  from the 
consultant haematologist dated September 2018.  But I dont think I need  to decide whether 
the treatment met CIGNAs definition of being evidence based,  or whether CIGNA unfairly 
relied on this term to also decline cover. 
Thats because even  if it did unfairly rely on this reason to decline the claim (which  I make no 
finding on), this was one of a number of reasons relied on by CIGNA to decline Ms Cs claim. 
And Ive explained  above  why Im satisfied  that the claim  has been fairly  declined for at least 
two of those reasons. 
Ive also taken into account what Ms C says about  the policy exclusions being unreasonably 
wide and, despite  requesting an explanation from CIGNA, it hasnt confirmed the intention 
behind each exclusion (relied upon to decline her claim), when the policy  was first 
underwritten. However, we can only consider whether CIGNA has applied  a term fairly in the 
circumstances of each  individual  complaint. Looking at the terms of the policy relevant to the 
claim Ms C made, I dont  think its unreasonably applied them, for the reasons set out above.
the service Ms C received from CIGNA:
Since first declining her claim, CIGNA has relied on additional clauses in the policy to 
exclude cover. For example, it initially declined the claim on the basis that the procedure 
involved stem cell transplant and that it wasnt evidence based  treatment. Subsequently  it 
also said treatment for chronic conditions  arent  covered and also relied upon a term 
excluding treatment for autologous, allogeneic or syngeneic donations for transplant  or 
implanting purposes. 
Although CIGNA has given additional reasons to decline  the claim over time,  it has said from 
the start it wouldnt cover the claim and the reasons it initially put forward in September 2018  
are still being relied on now by it. Its not uncommon  for there to be several reasons to 
decline a claim  or for an insurer to rely on what it considers to be the most  relevant 
exclusion(s) initially. So, whilst I can see why Ms C isnt happy about this, I dont  think 
CIGNA has done anything  wrong by including additional reasons under the policy  to decline  
her claim, over and above the reasons  shed  been given initially.
Ive also listened  to the recording  of the call Ms C had with CIGNAs representative in early 
October 2018. I dont  agree that he was rude or dismissive of what Ms C was saying. I know 
Ms C was unhappy about CIGNAs representative not setting out the reasons for declining  
her claim in the way in which  she wouldve  liked - referring to specific clauses in the policy to 
support his decision. She described  his previous email as very poor, and he did respond: 
thats a matter of opinion. But it wasnt said in a rude or confrontational manner. 
When Ms C asked for a response in writing  to her email setting out why she disagreed with 
the decision to decline her claim. Again,  I accept  that he did say he didnt know what else to 
write, other than to repeat  the reasons in his initial email. 
I know Ms C wanted a detailed reply  to all the points shed made  in response to CIGNAs  
decision to decline her claim. But I dont think CIGNA has acted  unreasonably  by not 
responding in detail  to each point shed made  thats not something it necessarily has to do. 
The representative explained that if she was unhappy  that the terms excluding her claim 
were too widely  drafted,  then this wasnt something  hed be able to address. It would be 
Ref: DRN95399044something for the complaints  team  to handle. I think it was appropriate for him to refer Ms C 
to the complaints team in those circumstances. 
Ms C is also unhappy that CIGNA cancelled its attendance at a pre-planned meeting in 
November 2018  shortly before it was due to take place. She was meant to attend that 
meeting with a family member and senior staff members from her employer. Representatives 
from CIGNA were meant to call in by phone. Ive seen the reasons given by CIGNA  to 
Ms Cs employer at the time. It had initially thought the purpose of the meeting was to 
provide clinical  support  at the meeting. But by that stage, and in light of recent  
correspondence, it said the matter had gone beyond a clinical  decision;  it centred around 
whether the claim  should be declined for not amounting to evidence based  treatment.  That 
issue had been  addressed and it wasnt prepared to give any further details to Ms C. 
I dont know whether this information was passed on to Ms C as it shouldve been. And its 
unfortunate that CIGNA  cancelled  their attendance  so close to the time of the planned 
meeting. But the reasons for doing so arent  unreasonable and I can see that CIGNA 
confirmed that its medical director was still willing  to have a call with Ms C directly, if she 
wanted. I think that was fair.
Ms C has recently informed us that she suffered infections after undergoing  AHSCT, which  
required investigation by the private  hospital she was treated in. As a result she says she 
incurred an additional  £4,000 in medical costs. She says these additional costs should  be 
covered under the policy. Thats a separate claim and Ms C should  contact CIGNA to see 
whether it will cover  those costs. If it declines to do so, and shes  unhappy with the reasons it 
gives, Ms C should complain to it in the first instance.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask her to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9539904