K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained about Provident Personal  Credit  Limiteds decision  not to refund a 
repayment hed made  towards three  loans  hed taken out.
background
In early November 2018 Mr L repaid about £50 to Provident towards  three loans. He then 
asked for it back because he said he had no money.  Mr L said Provident initially  agreed to 
do this but a few days later his request was declined.
Mr L complained to Provident but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that although it had 
told Mr L it would take 3-5 working days for his refund to clear, it subsequently decided,  
following a review, that the repayment  wouldnt be refunded. It also said that if Mr L was 
experiencing financial hardship,  it could  help him organise affordable repayments.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Our investigator said that Provident 
hadnt acted unfairly  as Mr L had made  a repayment  towards the loans and it was within its 
rights not to give that back when he asked for it to be refunded.  Mr L also thought  he should 
be reimbursed for the cost of his calls to Provident but when our investigator put this to 
Provident, it said its calls were free. Mr L was not happy with the investigators  assessment 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Provident doesnt  need to do any more.  Let me explain why.
Mr L has three loans with Provident  and hes agreed  to make weekly  repayments totalling 
about £25. In early  November, Mr L made  a repayment of about  £50 towards  all three loans. 
Having done so, he asked for a refund as he was concerned  he didnt have enough  money. 
When he spoke to Provident it told him it would take between 3 and 5 working days  to 
arrange for the refund.  Mr L believed that meant he would  be getting the money back  and 
was therefore  disappointed when it told him a few days later it had decided not to issue a 
refund. Mr L believes Provident  should  have issued a refund and notes that when he asked 
for a subsequent payment  to be refunded to him later the same month, Provident agreed to 
do that.
Mr L has taken out three loans with Provident  and entered into an agreement to repay a 
certain amount  per week. Once  he paid the amount due in early November I dont think 
Provident were under  any obligation to refund him the money when he asked for it back.  
I can see that it decided  to do just that later the same  month  but I think  it would be unfair to 
say it should have refunded the first repayments just because  it decided to refund  the 
second repayments. As a responsible lender,  I would  expect Provident to respond 
reasonably to any issues of financial hardship  and, in this instance,  I can see that it offered 
to help Mr L organise affordable repayments  and also gave him details of three 
organisations that might be able to give him free and independent advice.
Mr L also said he should be reimbursed  for the cost of calls he made to Provident. However, 
as Provident has telephone numbers  available that are free to use from both landlines  and 
Ref: DRN98639112mobiles, Mr L shouldnt  have incurred any call costs and I see no reason why it should  
therefore give him any payment for his calls.
I dont think Provident  have done anything  wrong in refusing  to refund the payments Mr L 
made in early November  2018 and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863911