K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were given incorrect information about their mortgage options  
by Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide)  which prevented them  switching their mortgage 
sooner and saving  £250.  
background
 
This complaint has been brought to us by Mrs M and the relevant calls that took place with 
Nationwide were also completed by Mrs M. So although this is a joint complaint Ill refer only 
to Mrs M from this point forward.
Mrs M made  several  calls to Nationwide between  15 May 2018 and 6 June 2018  to discuss  
her mortgage options. She says she was told, in May 2018, that she could  only transfer her 
mortgage to another fixed rate product. She later discovered she could select a tracker, but 
because of the incorrect advice she says she missed out on switching a month earlier  and 
saving £250. 
Nationwide accepts Mrs M was given this incorrect advice. But it says this took place during 
a call on 6 June 2018. Mrs M had discovered that she could select  a tracker by 
13 June 2018.  No rate changes took place between those dates and the earliest a new deal 
could begin was 1 July 2018. So Nationwide doesnt agree that Mrs M has suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the incorrect advice it gave.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service where it was looked  at by one of our 
investigators. He accepted that Nationwide had given Mrs M incorrect  advice, but was 
persuaded this took place on 6 June 2018. So he didnt think Mrs M had suffered a financial 
loss. He recommended that Nationwide should apologise for the incorrect  advice in writing,  
but he didnt think  it needed to pay Mrs M any compensation.
Mrs M felt strongly that the date of the call wasnt correct. Our investigator obtained a 
screenshot from Nationwide showing the date the call took place was 6 June 2018. He also 
arranged for the screenshot and a copy of the call recordings to be sent to Mrs M. He 
maintained his view that the call took place on 6 June 2018 so Mrs M hadnt suffered  a 
financial loss.
Mrs M didnt  agree, so because no agreement has been reached,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely, in light of the evidence 
available.
Id like to assure Mrs M that Ive thought very carefully about everything shes  said and the 
information provided. But having  done  so, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why in more  detail.
Mrs M says she clearly  remembers the call with Nationwide taking place in May 2018. She 
says Nationwide  must not have provided all of the call recordings.  Nationwide  says it has 
Ref: DRN90482732provided all of the calls that took place during the month of May 2018 as well as the call from 
6 June 2018.
The recordings Nationwide has provided are from 15 May 2018, 30 May 2018 and 
6 June 2018. Our investigator went into significant detail about the content of each call in his 
initial assessment,  so I wont repeat all of that information here. But its important to state  
that Nationwide couldnt have highlighted the option  of switching earlier  during the first call 
as Mrs M declined  the offer to pull up her account  details. And the topic  of a variable rate 
didnt come up on the second  call as Mrs M was asking for indicative monthly  repayments  on 
fixed rate products only.
Ive thought very carefully about Mrs Ms recollections of the call where she was given 
incorrect information  and when she remembers it taking place. She says she clearly  
remembers it taking place  in May 2018 as it was shortly after a holiday that sticks in her 
memory. I dont doubt that Mrs Ms recollections  are genuinely held. But Ive also had to 
consider that she didnt  raise her complaint until around five months after the call took place, 
which could potentially have impacted  the accuracy  of her recollections.  
Nationwide has confirmed  it has no record of any other calls taking place in May 2018  and it 
has provided system screenshots to support  that the 6 June 2018 call did take place on that 
date. I note that the call Mrs M describes is very similar to the call that took place  on 
6 June 2018. And if Mrs M had received this advice in May 2018  as she says, I think  its 
unlikely she wouldve called back in June  2018  to ask the same question  again.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the call Mrs M remembers 
took place on 6 June 2018.  This means  that although she received incorrect  advice, she 
hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of it. So I dont think it would be fair to direct  
Nationwide to pay any compensation. Nationwide  has accepted  it gave Mrs M incorrect  
advice and has agreed to provide a written  apology. I think  this is a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part.
Nationwide Building  Society should  send Mr and Mrs M a written apology  for the incorrect  
advice provided  during  the call on 6 June 2018  if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048273