K820x#14Complaint
Ms J and Miss J are complaining about  Admiral Insurance Company  Limiteds  administration  
of their motor insurance policy.
 
Background
In January 2019 Miss J took out a motor  insurance policy  with Admiral. A few weeks  later, 
Ms J called Admiral to add her car to Miss Js policy under the multicar policy arrangement.  
She paid for the additional premium  using her credit  card.
Ms J had problems accessing her insurance  documents through  the link to the online portal 
Admiral had sent to her. She phoned  Admiral  and they told her that the date of birth held for 
her was incorrect, which explained why she was having difficulty accessing her documents.  
They suggested Miss J log into the portal to check and amend any incorrect  details. At that 
point in the conversation, Ms J decided to cancel her part of the policy.
Admiral removed Ms Js car from the policy and refunded the premium relating to Ms Js car. 
But the refund was made to Miss Js card, which had been used to pay for the main policy,  
rather than the card Ms J had paid the additional  premium from.
Ms J and Miss J complained to Admiral, but they didnt uphold  their complaint. Admiral said,  
in summary, that although they allow one off payments from other  cards, the policy  can only 
have one card stored on file as a main payment method, and any refunds associated  with 
the policy will be made to this card. They also said that Ms Js details had been  entered  
online by the person  that set up the quote, and because her date of birth wasnt recorded 
correctly shed had trouble  accessing  her documents  online.
Ms J and Miss J brought their complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold  their complaint, 
but Ms J and Miss J disagreed, so its now been passed to me for review and a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going  to uphold Ms J and Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen its not clear why Ms Js date of birth was recorded  incorrectly.  
Admiral say the details  were entered incorrectly when  the quote  was set up online. But 
theyve not given us any evidence of this. Ms J says she was first given a quote for adding  
her car when Miss J took out her policy over the phone.
Ive listened to the call Miss J had with Admiral to set up her policy,  and the later call from 
Ms J to add her car to the policy. Ms Js date of birth wasnt taken in either of these calls.  But 
it seems there was an earlier phone conversation which Admiral havent  provided where
Ms J (or Miss J) gave  Ms Js details for the initial multicar quote. So, although I cant say for 
sure whether  Admiral  recorded Ms Js date of birth incorrectly over the phone, I think its 
most likely this was the case.
However, assuming  Admiral did record Ms Js date of birth incorrectly,  I think this is 
something that could  have been quite easily rectified when Ms J contacted  Admiral  to say 
Ref: DRN98557292she couldnt access the policy documents. The adviser Ms J spoke to was in the process of 
suggesting ways  to access the documents  when Ms J said she was cancelling the policy and 
ended the call. I appreciate Ms J was frustrated  with the problems shed had accessing the 
documents, and it was of course her choice to ask for the policy  to be cancelled. But I dont 
think Admiral were  really given a chance to resolve the problem.
I can understand why Ms J would have expected the refund for the cancellation to be made 
to the card shed made the payment from. But I can see that page 18 of Admirals  your car 
insurance guide (which  gives the general terms and conditions of the cover) explains that:
If you are due a refund,  we will credit  the bank account or card used to pay for the majority of 
the policy premium.
So, Im satisfied that the refund was made  to Miss Js card, as the main method of payment  
for the multicar policy, in line with the terms and conditions. I dont think  Admiral  have made  
a mistake in how they processed Ms Js refund. 
I can see that Ms Js also mentioned that she had two calls with Admiral which were cut off, 
and Im satisfied Admiral did what they could to look into this for her at the time, and didnt 
find any issues they could  resolve. 
I can fully understand  why Ms J was frustrated with the process of setting up the policy  and 
obtaining a refund. But as the investigator has explained, its not our role to tell a business 
how its internal systems  and processes  should work. 
And while I think its likely Admiral  recorded  Ms Js date of birth incorrectly - which led to her 
being unable  to immediately access her policy documents online - I dont think  I can fairly 
say this caused Ms J more than some minor inconvenience which  Admiral  could have 
resolved if they had been given the opportunity to do so. So, I wont be asking Admiral to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2021.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9855729