K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about 15 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr S between  July 2014 
and March 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr S complaint and thought that loan 5 and loans 9 to 15 shouldnt 
have been given. Satsuma initially disagreed with the view on loan 5 and then didnt respond 
to our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including the key rules,  guidance and good  industry  
practice - on our website.  
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the borrowers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Satsumas initial response  to our adjudicator, I think  that it is important for 
me to start by saying that -Satsuma was required to establish whether  Mr S could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN90105892Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 5, 9 and 10 would more likely  
than not have shown that Mr S was gambling  significant sums of money which meant  that he 
was unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay these loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr S case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 11. I say this because:
By this stage, Mr S had taken out 5 loans within 8 months and Mr S had been 
indebted to Satsuma for 14 months.  So Satsuma ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying previous 
loans was leaving in his finances  and that Mr S indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Satsuma.  Loan  15 was 
taken out 14 months after Mr S first (in this sequence of loans).  And it was for a 
larger amount. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to 
Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Satsuma continued to lend from loan 11 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr S indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 and loans 9 to 15 and Satsuma  should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 5 and loans 9 to 14;
Ref: DRN90105893remove any interest and charges applied to loan 15 from the outset.  The payments 
Mr S made should be deducted from the new starting balance (in other  words,  the 
amount Mr S was originally lent). Any extra  Mr S paid,  if any, should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him.  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges (and 
overpayments should there be any) from the date they were paid (if they were) to the 
date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5,9 and 10 from Mr S credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 11 onwards  means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 11 to 14 should be removed from 
Mr S credit file.
if an outstanding  balance remains on loan 15 after all adjustments  have been made, 
Satsuma can deduct this from what it now needs  to pay Mr S should it wish to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr S complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9010589