K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
July 1997. Mr and Mrs C say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
BoS had to make it clear  that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Cs consent
before adding the policy. Mr and Mrs C say they werent aware  the MPPI was an optional  
product and it wasnt properly explained to them. As the mortgage and MPPI were  arranged 
during a meeting I dont know what was discussed. And BoS isnt able to provide all the 
paperwork from the time the sale took place  this is unfortunate, but unsurprising  for a sale 
that took place  from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.  
So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments alongside what we know in general about how 
BoS sold MPPI at the time to decide  whats more  likely to have happened. And based on 
what I know about how BoS sold MPPI I wouldve  expected there to have been 
conversations with the advisor about  the MPPI and paperwork  wouldve had to be completed  
to confirm the level of cover and to set up the policy. The MPPI wouldve also appeared on 
their mortgage statements, and I wouldve expected them to query this if they had any 
concerns. 
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mr and Mrs C knew  at 
the time that the MPPI  was optional and they decided to take it. But I can understand  why 
they might  not recall  this now, as the sale took place many  years ago.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Cs comments that they felt pressured into taking out the 
MPPI. But they havent been able to say what exactly  the BoS advisor said or did to make  
them feel like this. Thats  understandable given the time thats passed. I can accept the 
advisor may have told them it was a good idea to take the policy.  But this isnt the same as 
pressure. So overall I havent seen enough to uphold the complaint only on what  Mr and Mrs 
C have said.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the MPPI  was right for 
them and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was.  I 
say this because:
Mr and Mrs C were both eligible for the MPPI.
Mrs C was employed part time, but looking  at her salary  at the time it seems most  
likely that she worked  for the minimum requirement of 16 hours a week. Mr C also 
Ref: DRN91903792provided details  of his health and confirmed that he had a minor  condition which 
didnt affect him day to day and he didnt receive treatment for it. So based on this 
information it doesnt seem likely they wouldve been affected by the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  received  any sick pay at the time.  The MPPI 
wouldve paid out for 12 months if either  Mr or Mrs C were  off work due to accident  or 
sickness. This means they wouldve had peace  of mind  that part of the mortgage  
payment would be covered, and any employer benefits could be used  to help cover 
every day expenses  or other financial commitments. The PPI wouldve also paid for 
up to 12 months if Mr and Mrs C were made  redundant. 
Mr and Mrs C had savings at the time which they say they could  have relied on. But 
the MPPI  would  have  allowed them to keep those  savings intact. 
Mr and Mrs C were taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment,  which  
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them.  And I think having the security that their repayments  
wouldve been made if they were  unable to work wouldve been important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C. And as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  amended or cancelled  the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs C about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the MPPI  was mis-sold. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs C but I hope  my decision clearly  addresses their concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Chandni Green
Ref: DRN91903793ombudsman
Ref: DRN9190379