K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Ageas  Insurance Limited  turned  down a claim she made under the 
storm section of her buildings insurance policy.
background
Mrs C made  a claim to Ageas after her house suffered damage  during a period of heavy 
rainfall at the end of May 2018. Rainwater built up in the gullies  and entered  the house  under 
the first course of roof tiles, causing damage to the rooms below.
Ageas agreed  there had been heavy rainfall and sent out a surveyor  to assess  the damage. 
However, based on their findings, it rejected Mrs Cs claim. In the surveyors  opinion, the 
rainwater entered  the house  due to the poor design  of the roof and it having insufficient 
outlets to allow water to drain away. Ageas  said there was an exclusion in the policy, which  
meant it wouldnt pay for any damage to the inside  of the property if water gets in due to bad 
design.
Mrs C disagreed with Ageas decision, she arranged for her own builder to inspect the roof. 
In their opinion, the outlets were sufficient for the design of the property and they felt the 
storm was the cause of the internal damage  to Mrs Cs property.
In bringing her complaint to this service, Mrs C made the following points:
The property is over 20 years  old and this is the first occurrence of such  damage.
The building complied  with Building  Regulations  when it was constructed.
The roof is regularly inspected to ensure the rainwater  outlets  are clear.
The torrential rain that fell was very significant.
But for the occurrence of the torrential  rain/storm conditions, the damage wouldnt 
have happened.
Ageas  have failed  to demonstrate the roof design was defective.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said in the 
first instance  he needed to be satisfied the definition of a storm was met and he didnt think  it 
had been. The policy defined a storm in terms of rainfall as exceeding one inch per hour 
(approx. 25mm). The nearest weather  station  to Mrs Cs property only registered rainfall of 
4.6 mm per hour.
Mrs C disagreed, she said the rainfall  was severe and torrential.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 31 October 2019. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Like the investigator, I first need to consider the policy  terms. Ive considered  what  Mrs C 
has said about the level of rainfall  at the time and looked at the weather maps  specifically  for 
the location of her property. These  do show there was a period of intense rainfall for 
approximately an hour and a half, measuring between 16-32 mm per hour and at times 
showing the maximum range of 32mm+ per hour.
Based on this, and the fact Ageas has not disputed there was storm, Im satisfied  Mrs C is
Ref: DRN96534662able to make  a claim under the storm section of her policy.
I must now consider the exclusion Ageas has cited to see whether I think  it has been applied 
in a fair and reasonable  way. Having considered everything, I dont think it has been, Ill 
explain why.
Where there are conflicting expert  reports, I must determine which I think, on balance,  is the 
more persuasive evidence. In this case,  both experts have inspected the roof, but we have 
two different opinions:
the damage is because of poor design,  it was evident the two outlet pipes were  not 
sufficient to cope  with the heavy rain.
there is nothing wrong with the roof design, the number of outlets is quite adequate, it 
is the same design of several properties  built in the area by a well-respected building  
company. The ingress of water  was due to the storm and the partial blocking of the 
outlets caused  by debris blowing  onto the roof and moss  washed off the roof caused  
by torrential rain.
Ageass surveyor has said the damage  is due to poor design. The implication being  that 
when the roof was constructed, it wasnt done to an appropriate standard.  However, it has 
provided no further arguments or evidence to support this opinion.
Mrs Cs builder however has provided  a detailed rational for their opinion of the cause of the 
damage. I can see they are a member  of several  associations within  the building trade and 
they have also pointed to the construction of the property by a well-respected building  
company to support their opinion  of it being well built.
Mrs C has said her property was built around 1997.  I agree with her point that it would have  
had to comply with building regulations at that time.  Ive seen nothing to suggest  it didnt  or 
that wasnt the case.
Having reviewed all the evidence provided  Im not persuaded the surveyors  report provided 
by the business sufficiently shows the roof design  was poor.  And, I dont think Ageas  can 
fairly or reasonably decline the claim  due to this.
I accept there appears to be no visible damage to the roof of Mrs Cs property,  but had it not 
have been for the storm, which is an insured peril, the internal damage  would  not have been 
caused.
Given the time that has passed, Mrs C has already had some of the repairs completed. 
Because of this, Ageas should reimburse any costs shes incurred and ensure  any 
outstanding works to repair  the damage, as set out in its surveyors  report, are completed.
my provisional decision
Im currently  minded to uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Ageas Insurance  Limited  and 
direct it to settle the claim.
Ageas should  reimburse any repair costs Mrs C has already incurred and ensure  any 
outstanding works to repair  the damage, as set out in its surveyors  report, are completed.
Ref: DRN96534663responses to my provisional  decision
Both Ageas and Mrs C responded  saying they accepted my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, given both parties 
accept my findings, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Ageas Insurance Limited and direct it to settle the claim. 
Ageas should  reimburse any repair costs Mrs C has already incurred and ensure  any 
outstanding works to repair  the damage, as set out in its surveyors  report, are completed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9653466