K820x#14Complaint
The Estate of Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt settled the funeral costs.
Background
The late Mrs D passed away in 2005. On 5 April 2018 Santander wrote to the executor,  
Mr D, and said We can confirm that we can settle the funeral bill once we receive the 
original invoice from the funeral director. Well pay this by transfer to an account held with 
another bank,  so please can you give us the banks name, sort code, account  number  and 
the account holders  name.
Mr D later forwarded a certified  copy of the funeral invoice dated 29 September 2005 for 
$3,809.50. The evidence Mr D forwarded shows the invoice was settled  by cheque from him 
on 27 September 2005. Mr D asked  Santander to credit the funds to a joint account he holds 
abroad. 
Santander refused  to pay Mr D to cover the cost of his late mothers funeral. Mr D 
complained but Santander didnt agree a mistake had been made. It apologised that some  of 
the wording in its letter was unclear but said the late Mrs Ds savings account only held £203 
and that it wouldnt  pay anything else. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator. The 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  as they didnt agree Santander had made a mistake.  
Mr D asked to appeal  so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr D has sent in detailed submissions 
and responses to the adjudicators findings. I want to assure Mr D Ive read and considered 
everything that both he and Santander have sent when  reaching my decision. I havent 
referred to all the points  hes raised and have focused on what  I feel are the key issues of 
the case. I hope Mr D wont take that as a discourtesy, my approach reflects  the informal 
nature of our service. 
Mr D complains that Santander hasnt honoured its agreement to cover the cost of his late 
mothers funeral. I understand Mr D has interpreted Santanders letter  dated  5 April 2018 as 
being a promise  to pay his late mothers funeral expenses but I dont agree. Santanders  
letter says it can settle the funeral  bill, it doesnt say it will pay or refund the cost of the 
funeral. 
Mr D forwarded a copy of the funeral directors invoice dated  29 September  2005. Whilst the 
invoice shows the total cost of the funeral was $3,809.50 it also shows  the balance due was 
$0.00. The information Mr D sent Santander shows he settled the funeral bill by cheque  on 
27 September 2005. Theres  nothing in Santanders  letter that indicates its willing  to 
reimburse an estate or executor for a funeral bill that has already been  settled. As a result, I 
dont agree that Santander made a mistake when it refused to pay Mr D $3,809.50 to cover 
the funeral costs. 
Ref: DRN93463282Ive looked at how Santander  handled the Estate  of Mrs Ds enquiries since Mr D made 
contact in 2018 but I havent found anything  to show its made mistakes. Mr D has been  able 
to close his late mothers account and the funds held in it have been transferred  in line with 
his instructions. 
Ive also looked  at how Santander administered  the account in question.  The savings 
account and it was made dormant in 2009.  Due to the nature of the account and the fact it 
was dormant the statement information  available is limited. But I havent seen anything that 
indicates Santander has failed to correctly  administer the account. 
Santander sent Mr D an incorrectly addressed  letter and later apologised. Im satisfied  
Santanders apology  fairly reflects the impact of receiving an incorrectly  addressed letter  so 
Im not telling it to take any further action.  
As Ive said above,  Santanders letter didnt offer to reimburse the costs of the late Mrs Ds 
funeral to the estate, it offered to help settle the bill. But Mr D had already settled the funeral 
bill on 27 September  2005 so no further  action from Santander was required. As Im satisfied 
Santander has dealt  with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D (on behalf of 
his late mothers estate)  to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346328