K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out. It assumes it was in 1994 when the card started, although its records  
dont show PPI being charged  on the account until 2000. Mr B recalls  the sale took place in 
one a branch  and, with the banks  agreement,  Im reviewing  it on that basis. The policy  gave 
Mr B protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B asked how we can make a decision when there  is 
so little information for his complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory  or 
inconclusive I reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities   so, on what I think  is 
most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how Lloyds sold PPI at the 
time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr B said - that he was completely unaware the PPI 
was added to his credit card.  There isnt much  information to go on in this case, 
because everything  happened so long ago. And I dont think  its surprising or 
unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mr Bs application  form any more. 
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards  between 1994 and 
2000, I think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Mr B aware he had a choice about PPI. 
The sample of the application form hes likely  to have used shows he would have 
needed to tick a box to take out PPI. 
I have taken into account Mr Bs comments, but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he recalls. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  it was optional, I cant  fairly conclude  
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr B without giving him a choice, and him agreeing to take it. 
Ref: DRN94121482Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B. This means  Lloyds had to make  
sure it was right for him. I know  he feels strongly he had no need for the cover,  but I 
think it was suitable  based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  Mr B was 
entitled to three months sick pay and had a death-in-service benefit.  But the PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months  for all successful accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims. And a death in-service benefit  doesnt  cover the same events or 
offer the same type of protection  as PPI. It wouldnt  help with monthly credit card 
repayments if Mr B wasnt working. He also said his parents would have helped, but 
thats not suitable  alternative protection. Its not guaranteed  and peoples  circumstances 
can change. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been  useful to Mr B if he was sick or 
lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  However, based on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems 
he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And, given  what  
we know about  the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these years, the policy wouldve 
been competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely  Mr B 
wouldve made  a different  decision if better  information  had been provided.  On balance 
I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Bs comments, including  his point that he never missed 
a payment, but for the reasons set out above  they dont change  my conclusion.
It follows I dont think Mr B has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412148