K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) converted  his student account to a 
regular account  without enough notice,  asked him to repay his overdraft and gave poor 
service. 
background
Mr A had a Santander student account  with a £2,000 overdraft limit while he was at 
university. His original graduation date was July 2018 and the following month Santander 
converted his account into a graduate account. Santander says it wrote to Mr A with the new 
terms and conditions before converting  the account  and the student account  terms and 
conditions say that this will happen.  
Mr A hadnt  paid money into his account since April 2018 when his final student finance 
payment was received. This wasnt a problem when he had a student account,  but 
Santanders graduate account  terms and conditions require monthly payments into the 
account. Santander says it wrote  to Mr A at the address it had for him six times to say that 
he needed to pay money in but didnt hear back.  Because of this, on 6 October Santander 
removed Mr As overdraft limit. Santander says it wrote to Mr A two more  times at the same 
address during October  confirming  what had happened. 
Mr A says he didnt receive  Santanders earlier letters and only found out what was 
happening after the overdraft limit was removed so he hadnt  known he needed to pay into 
the account. He says hed contacted  Santander to say his graduation was delayed  until 
September 2018, so his account  shouldnt have been converted to a graduate account so 
soon. Mr A says hes got a job now so can make monthly payments into the account. Hes 
also explained personal circumstances that meant  he hadnt  prioritised his bank account 
arrangements while  these events were  happening.  Mr A asked Santander to reinstate his 
overdraft limit, but it refused and his account was transferred  to its collections department.  
Mr A complained to Santander on 16 October  about  what itd done  and the customer  service 
hed received. Santander didnt uphold his complaint because it said itd tried to contact  him 
several times and he would have known the account was due to convert  into a graduate 
account. It said Mr A hadnt told it about  the change  to his graduation date when itd 
happened and that he could have  found  time to call its collections department to discuss the 
situation. Santander confirms that it wont reinstate Mr As overdraft.  
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with Santanders  response  and brought his complaint to our service. An 
adjudicator didnt uphold his complaint because they thought  Santander had taken 
reasonable steps to contact him and he had a responsibility to manage  his account. Mr A 
asked for a final ombudsman decision because he says he only received one letter  from 
Santander and hadnt received the terms and conditions that said what  would happen to his 
account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available evidence  
and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN94397052Mr A says that he only received one of Santanders letters about the account change and 
overdraft removal. But Santander  has provided  copies of all but one of the letters  it sent  
and shared the template  of the other letter that was posted on its behalf - and confirmed that 
all the letters were  posted to the same address its had for Mr A since  2007. Taking 
everything into consideration,  I think the most likely  explanation  is that Santander sent the 
letters to the right address but they went missing in the post  which  is unfortunate for Mr A 
but not something I find Santander at fault for. Because  of this, I think Santander made  
reasonable efforts to contact Mr A even if he didnt receive the letters. 
And Im satisfied that its student  account  terms and conditions  that Mr A wouldve 
accepted when he first opened the account   allow for this change. They  say When you 
complete your course  youll no longer  be eligible for this current account. At this time, these 
Specific Conditions  will cease to apply to your current account  and unless we agree with you 
before the end of your course that you can have  a different facility  with us, your 1 2 3  
Student Current Account will automatically be transferred to the 1 2 3  Graduate Current  
Account and the Specific Conditions for the 1 2 3  Graduate Current Account  in force  at that 
time will apply.  Well  give you at least two months notice of the date of the change or, if 
applicable, closure. 
Mr A says he hadnt seen  the terms so wasnt aware of the changes. Ive considered this 
point but Im not persuaded that Santander  didnt do enough to tell Mr A in advance about 
what would  happen.  Mr A agrees he received one of the letters, so I think  he couldve 
contacted Santander or looked at its website, which had the terms and conditions  for both 
the Student  and Graduate accounts and Key Facts  documents. Mr As also said he 
contacted Santander to say his graduation date had changed, which leads  me to think  he 
was aware that his account status was linked to him being a student. So although I dont 
doubt that Mr A hadnt realised exactly what would happen to the account and when  and 
that personal circumstances meant Mr A didnt have much time to look into it  I dont think 
that was due to a Santander error. 
Mr A says that because  he didnt  realise  he now had a graduate  account,  he didnt know he 
was expected to pay into it regularly  and he started work in September 2018 so didnt have 
a regular income before then. I sympathise with this and can see hes tried to stay within the 
new account terms and conditions once he realised what they were. But I can also see that 
Santander had written to Mr A several times asking him to make  a payment into the account 
and hadnt heard from him. The account had been  inactive since April 2018. So even if Mr A 
wasnt aware of this requirement, I dont think that was because Santander hadnt made 
reasonable efforts to contact him. And the terms and conditions  for both Santanders student 
and graduate bank accounts say that the overdraft limit can be withdrawn on demand. So I 
know Mr A will disappointed  and I sympathise  that his personal circumstances meant he 
wasnt focused on his banking at the time  but I dont agree that Santander acted 
unreasonably here when  it cancelled his overdraft in October  2018.  And because  Mr A 
hadnt told Santander about his personal  circumstances,  I dont think it can be expected  to 
have acted differently  because  of them. 
Taking everything into consideration, although I sympathise with Mr A I dont uphold  his 
complaint here. I know Mr A would like Santander to reinstate his overdraft on the same 
terms as before. But because I dont think  its made a mistake,  I dont think it would be fair 
for me to order this.  
Ref: DRN94397053I understand that Santander has put its collections  process on hold and not registered  a 
default on Mr As credit  file while he brought this complaint to our service. I also understand 
that Santander might consider a repayment  plan, which Mr A might want to pursue.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27April 2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9439705