K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that it took four days for Shawbrook  Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) to credit  a 
large sum of money shed  sent to Shawbrook from her current account. Mrs D also 
complains that she received poor customer service during her complaint.
background
Mrs D wanted to invest in a fixed rate bond and so sent a CHAPS  payment from her current 
account to Shawbrook. She did this because she wanted the money  to arrive on the same 
day. Shawbrook  credited  the money  to her account  four days  later instead. Mrs D 
complained that shed  lost four days interest.
Shawbrook investigated  Mrs Ds complaint. Shawbrook said that it had received  the money 
from a third party bank  involved in the transfer four days after Mrs D sent it. Shawbrook said 
that it had credited the money to Mrs Ds account  on the same day in line with its terms and 
conditions and had credited interest from that day too. In other words, Shawbrook  said that it 
had done nothing wrong. Shawbrook nevertheless  offered  to pay Mrs D interest from the day 
she sent the money as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs Ds complaint wasnt passed to 
Shawbrooks complaints team for two weeks, some of Mrs Ds messages  werent  replied to 
and she was addressed by the wrong name.  Shawbrook offered Mrs D £34 in compensation 
for these  errors. Shawbrook didnt include a complaints leaflet in its response  either  and 
offered an additional £25 in compensation for this. Mrs D wasnt happy  with Shawbrooks 
response, in particular what it had said about when it had received the money. So she 
complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ds complaint and didnt think  Shawbrook  had done 
anything wrong. They  also thought  that Shawbrook had put Mrs D back  in the position she 
would have been had the money credited on the day it left her current  account.  So they 
didnt think that they should ask Shawbrook to do more.
Mrs D didnt agree and said that our investigator  hadnt considered  the involvement of the 
third party bank when  coming to their view. Mrs D also said that Shawbrook hadnt  been 
clear when they wrote to her about when theyd received the money and the process that 
had to be followed. Mrs D thought Shawbrook  should admit in writing that theyd done 
something wrong and pay a further  £150  in compensation. So I was asked to look into this 
complaint.
Mrs Ds bank has said since Ive become involved that it gave Mrs D incorrect  information  
and that it didnt send the payment  by CHAPS. Mrs D says that as the funds were 
transferred electronically  they should  be credited on the same  working day in any event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wont  be upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Shawbrook received  the payment through  the third party  
bank involved in the transfer four days after it was sent.  They then followed their terms and 
conditions and credited interest from that date.  So I dont think that Shawbrook  have done 
anything wrong. They  credited interest  as soon  as the money was received and they cant 
Ref: DRN91551722influence when they receive the money. The payment wasnt, as we now know, sent by 
CHAPS. Shawbrook offered to credit  Mrs D with interest from the date the payment left her 
current account as a gesture of goodwill in any event. Shawbrook didnt have to do this. So it 
wouldnt be fair of me to tell Shawbrook to do more.  I accept that Mrs D will be disappointed  
by this as she wanted  more.
Shawbrook have paid Mrs D £34 for bad customer service and have  offered a further £25 
because their complaints  process was not followed correctly. I believe that these offers  are 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances as the errors in the way the complaint was handled 
didnt cause more  than minor inconvenience  or upset.
For the reasons  Ive given I wont be upholding this complaint.  
my final decision
I am aware  that Shawbrook Bank Limited  has made an offer to pay £25. I conclude  that such  
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Shawbrook 
should pay Mrs D £25
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9155172