K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Legal & General  Partnership Services Limited (the business) collected 
payment without his authority in respect  of a policy he didnt apply for. 
background
In 2018, Mr H cancelled  direct debit payments to the business after questioning his bank 
about what the payment was for. He says he didnt know he had been paying  the monthly 
premiums since  2012,  and has never wanted  life cover when he re-mortgaged  the same 
year. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Although theres no paperwork signed by Mr H this was normal for online 
applications. 
Hes unable to safely say if the two letters sent by the business   following the online 
application  were received by Mr H. 
Mr H had been paying the premiums  from 2012  to 2018, and shouldve noticed  
sooner if he was unsure about  what the payment was for. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
He maintains he didnt apply  for this policy and didnt  know  the payments were going  out. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, I dont think  
the business has acted unreasonably.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter.   
He has provided  submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered  
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr H and the business,  and reach  what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN98122332On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr H says Im unable to safely 
conclude that the business started this policy without  an application  from him or on his 
behalf  and collected payments for six years without his authority. 
The business couldnt have collected  money from Mr Hs bank   which  is unlikely to have 
paid out without his valid instructions  and continued to do so, without any authority. So I 
dont think I can blame  the business  for doing something it was authorised  to do.
I appreciate Mr H didnt sign any documentation  in relation to this policy.  But this isnt 
evidence he had nothing  to do with the application. I understand that this isnt unusual  or 
uncommon within industry practice with these sorts of online applications. Im satisfied Mr H 
wouldve been sent a copy of the check your documents, which wouldve asked him to 
check his details, and only reply if they werent correct.
I note it was recorded in a letter  dated September 2012  sent following a phone  call with the 
adviser  that Mr H wasnt interested in critical illness cover, income protection,  or 
unemployment cover, and he had no need  for buildings and contents insurance. It was 
recorded that he was interested in just life cover, which would  pay off the outstanding 
mortgage in the event  of his death, so his family wouldnt have to. 
I also note the policy  matched  the term and amount of the mortgage, and would reduce in 
line with the mortgage amount. And in the event  of a valid claim, the policy  would pay out the 
sum assured  regardless of whether or not he was aware he still had it  so Im unable to 
say the policy was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
I note that correspondence was correctly  addressed  to Mr H, and dated from the time of 
sale. Ive seen no evidence of any issues with the post that would suggest the letter  was 
unlikely to have  been sent or delivered.  
Mr H says his English isnt good and so he wouldnt have understood what the information 
related to. But on balance Im satisfied that his command  of English was such  that he would 
have questioned the formal nature and contents  of the letters. I note that a telephone 
number was also provided in case Mr H had any questions which I think  he wouldve, or 
ought reasonably  to have, if he had no prior idea about the life cover.    
I think its more likely than not that Mr H applied for the policy in 2012  when  he re-
mortgaged, and then changed his mind at some  point but forgot about it, and forgot to cancel 
the £28 monthly  premium.   
I appreciate the longer something  goes on for, the more difficult  it can be to detect, because 
people can quite easily become used to having a particular monthly balance after a few 
years of having the same. That might  explain why the payments have gone  unnoticed  for so 
long. But that said, I note Mr H didnt have so many  transactions that this payment couldve 
gone totally unnoticed. 
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN98122333For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9812233