K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about the advice he was given  by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2020. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons I was minded to uphold it were  set out in that
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider. 
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.  
Mr Fs representative  said he was happy to proceed  with the outcome proposed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision attached, my final decision is that I uphold  
Mr Fs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr F as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN93472662Copy of Provisional  Decision
 
complaint
Mr F has complained about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He explained  Mr 
F had said he was cold called in early 2016 and offered a pension review by representatives  of St 
Pauls Marketing, which he accepted.  He said he was told that transferring would earn him a better 
return than his current  frozen pensions.
Mr F had two pensions and two transfer values of £29,215 and £5,121 were transferred to the SIPP  in 
April 2016. An account with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) was opened and £16,800 was used 
to buy Just Bridging  Loan debentures.
Mr F, through his representative, complained  to Alexander David in December 2018.  I understand 
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred the complaint  to us.
One of our investigators asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it 
wanted us to take into account.  Despite  reminders,  no further evidence  or arguments were provided. 
The investigator therefore  assessed  the complaint on the evidence that had been presented.
The investigator said Mr F had alleged that he wouldnt have transferred  his pension and invested in 
the Just Loans investment if St Pauls hadnt recommended and arranged it. He noted  the SIPP 
provider had confirmed  that St Pauls Marketing was the introducing firm. And that Mr Fs version of 
events was consistent with the evidence  provided  by third parties. He thought  his evidence was 
credible. And he noted that Alexander David hadnt disputed  or commented  on Mr Fs complaint.  
The investigator said it was clear a comparison  had been made between Mr Fs existing plan and the 
prospective investment  with Just Loans in the SIPP,  taking  into consideration the performance of the 
existing plan and Mr Fs objectives. He said it was difficult to imagine  such  a conversation taking 
place without a recommendation to proceed with the better option,  inferred or otherwise. He thought  
St Pauls  Marketing had likely made a recommendation  to Mr F.
The investigator noted  Mr F had said he was a low risk investor, could not afford to lose any of his 
pension and had no capacity for loss. The investigator said the Just Loans debentures were issued by 
a single  company which he understood was concerned  entirely with peer to peer lending. The 
company was only a few years old at the time of advice and Mr Fs entire retirement  provision was 
invested in it. The investigator said the investment was speculative and unsuitable for Mr F. 
The investigator said that even if it was argued St Pauls Marketing didnt make a personal 
recommendation to Mr F, as it was arranging  the transaction and making a direct offer it was required 
to carry out an appropriateness  test in accordance  with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Conduct of Business rules  (COBS);  the debentures were  a non-readily realisable  security. Had this 
been done, St Pauls Marketing would  have likely determined that Mr F didnt have the necessary  
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the Just Loans investment.
The investigator went  onto say that he also thought the firm had failed to treat Mr F fairly or act in his 
best interests as required  by the FCAs Principles and COBS  2.1.1. Mr F was an inexperienced  
investor with very little capacity for loss. The investigator thought that any competent financial 
professional would have recognised that this transaction was unlikely to be in his best interests. And 
without the firms involvement  this wouldnt have happened. 
Ref: DRN93472663The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He sent his assessment of it to 
Alexander David. However it didnt provide  a response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both 
parties on 2 February  2020  explaining that the complaint would be passed  to an ombudsman for 
review and to make a final decision.   No further evidence  or arguments have been provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Fs original  complaint. Neither did it co-operate with
our investigation. Theres only very limited evidence  available to establish what happened at the time 
of the transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Fs recollection of
events. Alexander  David hasnt disputed what Mr F said in his complaint to it, or
what the investigator said in his assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Mr F has said about St Pauls role is consistent with
what other complainants  have described. So I think what he has said is plausible.  And taking  
everything into account, I have found  it credible. 
Mr F has said all the advice  he was given was over the phone. Hes said he was told he could get 
better returns than his existing  scheme,  although  he wasnt  shown the performance of his scheme 
and so no direct comparisons were made. Hes said he had no cash  savings,  an outstanding  
mortgage, another financial commitment and no other pensions. Mr F has said he was a low risk 
taker, had no previous investment experience and couldnt afford to lose the pensions.  
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available that St Pauls Marketing was involved 
from the outset.  Mr F subsequently  transferred his pension to the SIPP and invested  in the 
debentures. In my experience, its unusual for someone of Mr Fs background  and experience to want  
to transfer an existing  pension  in order to invest in this type of investment without  prompting. I think it 
was unlikely to have happened without  the involvement  of St Pauls. Im satisfied that it initiated  the 
transfer and investment in the debenture.  It was aware of where the investment was going to be made  
and facilitated it. 
Mr Fs representative complained to St Pauls  alleging that the recommendation to transfer Mr Fs 
existing pensions to the SIPP and invest in the DFM was unsuitable. Mr F has said St Pauls advised 
him to transfer  and invest in the debentures.  The firm hasnt disputed  this. In all the circumstances 
and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available I think its more likely than not that advice 
was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls was involved in arranging the transaction  and
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness  in accordance COBS 10. He
didnt think the debentures were appropriate for Mr F.
Again, St Pauls hasnt disputed this. I agree with the investigator  that its more likely than not
that St Pauls  arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debentures,  but Im
satisfied, on the limited  evidence available,  that it went beyond just promoting them and was involved 
in arranging the investment (and recommending it). The debentures were  high risk and speculative  
and clearly werent appropriate for Mr F given  his background, knowledge  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN93472664I think  it was clear that the debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr F and this should  have 
been clear  to St Pauls. Like the investigator, I dont think the firm treated  Mr F fairly or acted  in his 
best interests as required  by the Principles and COBS 2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls  hadnt 
advised Mr F to transfer  and invest in the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate  for him 
he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused  Mr F to transfer and invest  in a
product that he would  otherwise not have  invested  into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused 
the losses  that Mr F has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. I intend  to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr F on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. I dont think  he would have 
transferred, but I think  Mr F would  have  invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Fs 
circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr F fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance  of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark shown  
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr Fs pension plan to increase  its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Fs pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mr Fs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
I think  Mr F is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer at his selected  retirement age, so the reduction should  
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr F would have been able to take a tax-free lump  
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience the disruption to his retirement 
planning has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation  to Mr F in a clear,  simple format.  
Ref: DRN93472665Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr F how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax deduction  certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr Fs
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the investment its value should be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David  
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
Ref: DRN93472666maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point  on.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr F hasnt got the opportunity to close the SIPP if 
the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David  Securities Ltd cant buy the investment and 
it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr F an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  
tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated  using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr F and his representative  have  said he was a low risk investor and had little capacity for loss.  In 
the circumstances, I dont  think Mr F would have transferred with suitable advice. But its not possible 
to say exactly how he would have invested, so I think the index outlined  above is an appropriate  
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy  for the lower level of risk that Mr F was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Fs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr F into that position. It does not mean that Mr F would  have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr F could  have 
obtained from investments  suited to her objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347266