K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society  should have  stopped  the payment she made  to a 
scammer. 
background
Mrs B was having some work completed on her house. She received an e-mail containing an 
invoice from her builder and made an online transfer to him for £2,130  on 19 July 2018. A 
few days later, Mrs B spoke with her builder  who confirmed he hadnt received the funds. 
They then realised the builders e-mail account  been  hacked and Mrs B had sent the funds 
to a scammer. 
Mrs B notified Nationwide of the scam  on 24 July and it contacted the beneficiary  bank on 
the same  day to request a return of the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank said there 
were no funds remaining  in the scammers account. Nationwide explained  to Mrs B that they 
followed her instruction to make the payment, so they wouldnt be refunding  the £2,130 she 
lost. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and felt Nationwide  acted  reasonably when it 
allowed the payment  to be sent to the scammer. And he felt it had acted quickly to try and 
recover Mrs Bs funds,  so he didnt uphold the complaint. Because Mrs B disagreed with his 
findings, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN94944852And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mrs B when she made  the payment of £2,130, or whether it should  have done  more 
than it did.
Mrs B has accepted that she authorised  the transfer  herself. This means that Nationwide  
had an obligation  to follow her instruction and make  the transfer. But, as explained above, 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably  have a closer look at the wider 
circumstances surrounding  the payment itself. 
Ive looked at the statements from Mrs Bs account and having done so I dont think the 
payment itself was particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison to her normal  account 
activity. I say this because neither the payment type nor the amount was remarkable  as she 
regularly made bill payments for similar or higher amounts. So, I dont think  Nationwides  
systems should reasonably have been expected  to flag the payment  as suspicious in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs B contacted Nationwide on 24 July 2018,  shortly after she became aware that shed 
been the victim of a scam. Nationwide contacted  the beneficiary bank on the same day to try 
and get a refund of the £2,130. So, I think Nationwide  acted quickly  to try and recover       
Mrs Bs funds.  Unfortunately,  the beneficiary bank has evidenced  that all the funds were 
removed around  an hour after Mrs B transferred  them  on 19 July. 
Mrs B has unfortunately been the victim  of a very convincing scam,  and Im sorry that shes 
lost this money. Having  carefully considered Nationwides actions, I think its decision  not to 
refund Mrs B in this case  is fair and reasonable. It followed Mrs Bs instruction to make  the 
transfer of £2,130 and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I think 
Ref: DRN94944853it took sufficient steps to try and recover the funds in a timely manner once it was notified of 
the scam.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9494485