K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about twenty-nine payday loans Quick Quid  provided to Mr R from 
December 2008  onwards.  Mr Rs last loan was provided in November 2012. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid only agreed with our adjudicators view on fifteen  of the loans  and to put matters  
right for them. Mr R didnt accept Quick Quids offer. As this is the case  and the parties 
havent been able to resolve the compliant  informally, the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr R could repay  the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr R could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is wider  
Ref: DRN96487532than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr R, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr R was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan seven. I say this 
because:
By this stage, Mr R was into his sixth consecutive month of owing Quick Quid  money. 
In my view, Mr Rs pattern  of borrowing up until this point was in itself a clear  
demonstration of Mr Rs inability  to settle his loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
Mr R continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr R was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Rs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr R was provided with loans for a pretty much unbroken period of almost four years.  
So not only was he not making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick Quid  
his indebtedness  was increasing.  Loan  twenty-nine was provided 35 months after   
Mr Rs first  a period  which cannot in any circumstances be described  the short-term  
timeframe payday  loans are supposed  to tide consumers over for. Mr R had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr R lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr R owed  Quick Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans seven to twenty-nine and Quick  Quid 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
Ref: DRN96487533refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans seven to twenty-nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr R owed Quick Quid money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans seven to twenty-nine (if there  is any) is adverse. So all entries  
about loans seven to twenty-nine  should be removed from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9648753