K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Skipton  Building Society gave them  an incorrect  mortgage 
redemption figure. They  want compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this caused.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Skipton. On 13 March 2019, Mrs D called to check  
how much  they needed  to pay to settle  the mortgage. She was told the outstanding balance 
was £1,909.26, and there  were no charges or penalties  for redeeming the mortgage. Mrs D 
went into branch and paid this amount, thinking  it would settle the account. But Skipton 
hadnt factored  in a £75 redemption administration fee. Mr and Mrs D were  left owing 
£73.28.
When Skipton called Mrs D later that day about the outstanding amount, she raised a 
complaint. Skipton offered  to waive £20 from the outstanding balance. Mrs D wasnt happy  
with this. She paid £73.84 to clear  the account   but on 14 March 2019, Skipton agreed  to 
refund this. Mr and Mrs D then asked us to consider whether this was a fair resolution. 
In response to our file request,  Skipton  told us it hadnt considered offering compensation 
because Mr and Mrs D had accepted the £73.84 refund. But it wouldve been willing to offer 
£50-70. Our investigator  therefore suggested that Skipton offer £70 to resolve the complaint. 
Skipton agreed, but Mr and Mrs D didnt accept  this. So if fell to our investigator to decide 
what was fair. He felt Skipton had done enough to put things right by refunding £73.84. So 
he didnt recommend any compensation on top of this.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They said it was very upsetting and disappointing to find out they 
hadnt paid everything off after they thought theyd cleared everything.  So the matter  has 
been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
When Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage,  they agreed to the terms of the account. These 
set out that a fee is payable on redemption of the mortgage. At the time of sale,  this fee was 
£125. Its since dropped  to £75.
Im satisfied that Skipton was within its rights  to ask Mrs D to pay the additional  amount  to 
redeem the mortgage. But, Skipton shouldve let Mrs D know  about  this fee earlier  when she 
asked for a redemption figure. Its failure to do so left 
Mr and Mrs D in the upsetting situation of finding out they hadnt  fully redeemed their 
mortgage after being told they had. 
Id expect Skipton  to compensate Mr and Mrs D for the distress  and inconvenience this error 
caused. As Skipton has already refunded £73.84,  Ive considered  whether this provides 
sufficient compensation.  This money  was rightly due on the account, and Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve paid it but for Skiptons error. So I do think this refund effectively acts as 
compensation for the disappointment and upset Mr and Mrs D suffered. The level of the 
refund is in line with what Id have awarded,  taking  into account the amounts involved and 
Ref: DRN97109172the short amount  of time taken to uncover and address the error. On this basis,  Im satisfied 
that Skipton  has done enough  to compensate  Mr and Mrs D. 
I want to briefly address  the offer Skipton made  when our investigator was looking into the 
complaint. In a bid to resolve the complaint, Skipton  did agree to offer £70. But when 
Mr and Mrs D rejected  this, Skipton withdrew  its offer. So it fell to our service to decide 
whether Skipton needs to do anything  else. And as Ive explained,  I think Skipton has fairly 
compensated Mr and Mrs D by refunding £73.84. So Im not awarding anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9710917