K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her various 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Mrs C took out a series  of four loans between 1996  and 1999. Loan  1 was taken out in 
December 1996.  Nationwide  cant see that Mrs C paid for PPI on this account.  I have  not 
considered that as part of this decision.
In November 1997 Loan 2 was taken out - Mrs C took out a PPI policy  at that time.  This loan 
was for the sum of £4000 taken over a period of four years.  She paid for the PPI by a single 
premium of £551.64. And interest of £171.24 was added to it, so the total cost of the PPI 
was £722.88.  This policy covered her if she was off work due to an accident,  sickness  or if 
she lost her job. It would  have cost around £15.06 per month and paid out a monthly  benefit  
of £124.31 if Mrs C made a successful  claim.
Loan 3 was taken in 1998 over the telephone;  this did not involve a new sale of PPI. Mrs C 
telephoned Nationwide to ask if she could take up the offer of a further discount on the 
interest she was paying. So this replaced loan 2 and no new PPI was taken out. 
In August  1999,  Mrs C applied for loan 4 for a term of 48 months  over the telephone. This 
loan was taken  out to consolidate previous loans. She took out the PPI at the same  time. 
This policy cost £655.29 The PPI ended  when Mrs Cs loan finished early.
For ease of reference I will refer to each of the loans in my decision as follows;
loan 2 (ended 6604 taken in November 1997), 
loan 3 (ended 6605 taken in January 1998)- no new policy and 
loan 4 (ended 3884 taken in August 1999.)
To be clear Im not looking at the sale of PPI in relation  to loan 1 in 1996  when there  is no 
evidence that PPI was sold or into loan 3 when there was no new PPI sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with this view 
and asked that her case be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive not upheld Mrs Cs complaint.  Although  I appreciate Mrs C will be 
disappointed with my decision I will explain why.
Nationwide doesnt  have all the paperwork from the time of the sales. This is understandable 
and not unusual as businesses arent required to keep paperwork indefinitely. But where the 
evidence is incomplete  or inconsistent, I will rely on what is more  likely to have happened  
Ref: DRN91581182taking into account  the evidence available,  together with what the parties have told me. I 
have also thought about what we know about these types of sales  at the time.
Mrs C says she didnt agree to pay for the PPI. She says she was unlikely  to require it if it 
was sold as optional.  She has told us she had taken out an earlier mortgage with PPI which  
was cancelled after the free period ended.  And a previous experience  of PPI demonstrates  
she was unlikely to require it if it had been sold as optional. These sales also took place a 
long time ago and Mrs C has also said she cant remember  all the details about  how the 
policy was sold or much  of the detail about why she borrowed the money - this is entirely  
understandable given  how long ago the sales took place.
Even so, Nationwide needed  to give Mrs C a clear choice about  buying the policies. 
Loan 2
Neither Mrs C nor Nationwide can confirm how exactly this policy was taken out. But 
Nationwide has provided me with a copy of the loan agreement. I can see that the cost of the 
PPI has been  set out separately to the loan under the column headed optional credit  
insurance. On the form it indicates that this loan was taken to pay off a previous  loan.  Mrs C 
has signed and dated the agreement. So I think its more likely she read the form as she was 
taking on a new financial commitment. And from the way the form is set out I think its likely 
she understood that the PPI was separate to the loan, what  she was insured for and the cost 
of the PPI - this is set out on the paperwork; and that she could have declined  it if she didnt 
want it. 
Loan 3
Nationwide has also provided  a copy of some notes  from their file which  show  that this was 
an internal refinance  of the previous loan 2. So no new sale of PPI took place then.
Loan 4
Nationwide has provided a copy of the personal  loan application form showing the loan and 
the PPI were  applied  for over the telephone. And I note that the box confirming insurance 
cover has been taken has been crossed.  There was also an available  box to mark if Mrs C 
had declined  the policy. The note on the form says give brief details of insurance cover; 
explain the summary of cover will be sent to the consumer.  I cant say what  was discussed  
in the call but I think as Mrs C had already taken out the PPI she would have  known what 
this insurance covered  her for and that she could  have said no to it. I think  it likely appeared 
on her loan statements  and if she didnt want it or didnt know she had it she could have 
questioned it at any time. 
Overall, on balance, I think that Mrs C took out both the PPI policies  knowing  she could 
decline them  if she didnt want them. 
I dont think a tailored  recommendation was made  for the PPI policies. That meant  that 
Nationwide didnt have  to take reasonable steps to make sure the policies were suitable. But 
it still needed to give Mrs C clear  enough  information so she could  decide  for herself whether 
or not she wanted  to take them out.
Ref: DRN91581183Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been but for the reasons 
Ive explained  below  I dont think better information  would have put her off buying the 
policies. I say this because;
Mrs C was eligible for the policies and as she was working and in good health  she wouldnt 
have been affected by any of the main  limitations  and exclusions that might have made it 
more difficult to make a claim.
Mrs C has said that she didnt need the policies.  Shes told us she had good benefits from 
work  at least six months full sick pay. Shes  also told us she would have received support 
from her parents and her grandparents. As this was a non-advised sale Nationwide  didnt 
need to check  her other means but in any event, this policy  would have paid out in addition 
to any sick pay she received and for potentially longer than it lasted. And while I appreciate  
Mrs C has told me that her parents and grandparents could have helped, this type of help 
cant always be guaranteed as and when Mrs C needed it. So I think the PPI could  have 
been useful for her if things went wrong.
At the time it looks like it was affordable for her.
I have taken into account the purpose  of Mrs Cs loan 4 was to consolidate debt but as 
Nationwide offered a proportionate refund when she re-financed, I dont think she would 
have lost out.
I have taken into account everything Mrs C has told me including what  shes said about a 
previous PPI policy shed  taken  out. But these points dont change my decision. Each case  
is looked at separately  on its own merits. So what applies in one case  will not necessarily 
apply in another case.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but I dont  think she lost out because  of anything  Nationwide 
did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9158118