K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1985. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mr P. But it mustve been 
added either  when Mr P took out his credit card or sometime after. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that wed seen enough information to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P disagrees with our adjudicators view.  Mr P says he took out the card during a meeting, 
but PPI wasnt mentioned.  Mr P says the PPI was added without his knowledge  or consent.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mr P being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant know  
exactly what the bank  mightve said to Mr P when he took out PPI. 
Where theres only limited information about  what happened I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely. It looks  to me as if Mr P couldve 
benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim. So, on balance, I think its more likely that 
Mr P decided he wanted to have  the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds  added  PPI to his 
account at his request. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mr P it would treat this as an advised sale.  This means it not 
only had to give him important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for Mr P.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mr P based on what  hes told us about  his 
circumstances. PPI wouldve covered Mr P for up to 12 months  per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness if he couldnt work.  And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr P lost his 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. It doesnt  appear that Mr P had any significant other 
means he couldve depended on if he wasnt able to work.  
Mr P was eligible for the cover.  There were some things the policy  didnt cover.  But it doesnt 
look as if this wouldve  affected Mr P. So I dont think  that having more  information about the 
policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr P off taking out PPI.
Ref: DRN98765332Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr P made a claim. But I think Mr P chose to take out the policy   so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. It seems to have been affordable for him. Mr P 
wouldve been able to see when he was paying for PPI each month  as it showed up on his 
monthly statements. 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that Mr P told us he started to receive 
pension income  in 1988. But he couldve cancelled the policy at any time if his 
circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for it. So this information doesnt  
affect my decision overall.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Mr P wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think hed still have  taken out 
the policy. 
This means  Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
Lloyds Bank PLC got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about  that. Because Lloyds  Bank PLC didnt 
tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank  PLC has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this. So 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019. .
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9876533