K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a conditional  sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He would like to reject the car and 
be reimbursed for the diagnostic test costs he has incurred and for his loss of enjoyment.
background 
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn in August 2017 to acquire a 
car. In December 2017, he says the car went into limp mode and a warning light came on 
saying the air conditioning had been turned off due to overheating. He says he waited 
around three  and a half hours for the car to cool and checked  all the engine  levels  were  
within the required limits.  When  he turned the car on the warning light was still showing. He 
left the car overnight and had to arrange for the car to be collected the next day. 
Mr C contacted Moneybarn on 8 December about  the issue and says he explained he 
needed to be contacted  by email as he worked  away from home. He says he did not hear 
anything until he was contacted on 28 January 2018 by letter to say his case was being 
closed. He contacted Moneybarn and his complaint was reopened. 
Mr C says he was asked  to provide a diagnostics report alongside  the information he had 
already supplied. He asked if this would be reimbursed and was told it would be if it showed 
he was experiencing mechanical issues. Mr C paid £45 for a report  which showed two fault 
codes. 
An inspection report was arranged  and Mr C says the engineer agreed  there  was an 
intermittent fault and also noted  that the gearbox was stiff. He also noted that the service 
history of the car was not complete. He says the report then didnt mention the gearbox  
issue and said there were no faults.
Mr C says he doesnt feel safe driving  the car and that he has hardly used it and so any 
faults would  not be down  to wear and tear while in his use. He says that the issues are 
ongoing.
Moneybarn says that Mr C contacted  it on 8 December  2017 saying the car was 
overheating. It says it then tried to contact Mr C but as it couldnt  get hold of him the 
complaint was closed  on 29 January 2018.  Mr C then contacted it on 13 February and the 
case was reopened  and it says at this time Mr C asked  to be contacted by email.   
Moneybarn received a diagnostics  report from Mr C which confirmed two fault codes. It 
arranged for an independent inspection  to be carried out to establish whether there were 
faults present  from the point of supply.  It says the inspection did not find any faults with the 
car and suggested  that the fault codes were historic.
Our investigator did not think that there was enough evidence to say that the car had faults 
that were present at the point of supply and so she did not think that Moneybarn did anything 
wrong but not accepting Mr Cs request  to reject the car. She agreed that the car was sold 
without a full service history but was not persuaded that Mr C wouldnt  have  gone  ahead with 
the acquisition  had he known this. 
Ref: DRN99324832Moneybarn offered to cover any reasonable costs of having  the historic  fault codes removed 
and to pay Mr C £200 in recognition that the car was advertised as having  a full service  
history and this was not correct. Our investigator  thought this was reasonable. 
Mr C did not accept our investigators  view.  He said that if the car had been correctly  
advertised (rather than saying it had a full service history) its value would  have been  more 
than £200 less than the amount  he paid. He said he wanted to reject the car based on it 
being mis-sold due to the incomplete  service history.
Mr C said that if he couldnt  reject the car then he needed it repaired saying the fan was on 
constantly and he doesnt feel safe in the car. He says the car is not performing well as has 
been suggested and he hadnt  had repairs carried out as he believed  Moneybarn should 
cover the cost of these.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn to acquire a car. Under the 
regulations Moneybarn is liable if the car was either  misrepresented  or not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account the age and mileage of 
the car. At the time of acquisition  the car was around six years  old and based on the sales 
invoice it had been driven over 38,000 miles.
Mr C has raised  two issues.  The first relates to the quality of the car at the point of supply. 
The second  relates to the car being misrepresented due to it not having a complete service  
history.
For me to uphold Mr Cs complaint that the car was not of satisfactory  quality I have to be 
satisfied that there were  faults that were present or developing  at the point of supply and that 
these are ongoing.
Mr C experienced an issue with the car in December  2017, which was within six months of 
his acquisition of the car. He contacted Moneybarn about this. Mr C says that he explained 
at that time that correspondence  should  be by email but Moneybarn says this was 
mentioned at a later date. There was a delay  as Moneybarn was not able to contact Mr C for 
a period of time however this was resolved and the case reopened and investigated in 
February 2018.
Mr C had a diagnostics test carried out on 23 February which  reported two fault codes.  
Given this information  and given when Mr C raised his complaint I find it reasonable that 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car.
I have looked  through  the inspection  report  which took place  in March 2018. This noted that 
a light was illuminated in relation to the coolant.  Its diagnostics tests then showed two fault 
codes which  were both coolant regulated codes. The coolant levels were checked and found 
to be correct. The report says that there was no evidence of contamination to the oil or 
coolant and no evidence of external leaks. It says that once the engine started the warning  
light went out and the engine ran to the correct temperature. It says there were no issues  in 
the road test.
Ref: DRN99324833The inspection engineer concluded  that no faults  were evident during the inspection or road 
test and said the car could be returned  to service. It suggested the fault codes should be 
cleared and if further faults developed these should be investigated. It further suggested that 
the fault codes  could  be historic.
Based on the inspection  report, I do not find I can safely conclude  that there were faults that 
were present  or developing at the point of supply. I note the codes that were reported  and 
that the warning  light still comes on. However  as the fault codes could be historic and based 
on the inspection  there  were no faults reported, I cannot say that there  is an ongoing issue.  
As suggested, I find it reasonable that fault codes are removed and then, in the event of a 
reoccurrence of the issue, this should  be investigated further.
Mr C has also raised an issue with the service history.  The car was advertised as having a 
complete service history  up to a certain  point. However there was a service missing. I 
appreciate that Mr C was upset to realise  that there was a year without a service. 
To say that a misrepresentation  has taken place I need to find that a false statement was 
made and that this induced Mr C to enter  into the agreement. In this case  I accept that Mr C 
would have taken  comfort in there being  a full service history. However, the service  history 
was available  to Mr C and had this been important to him I would have  expected him to 
check it when taking  delivery of the car. It was not until the issue  was raised  with him a few 
months later that Mr C became aware of the missing  service. 
Based on what I have seen I dont  find I can say Mr C would not have entered into the 
agreement had he been aware of the missing  service.  I do accept that this has caused Mr C 
upset and that he should be compensated for this.
Mr C says that £200 compensation for the missing  service  is not enough. I note the 
comments he has made. But having looked  through the service history and considered 
Moneybarns comments about the impact on the cars value I find that the £200 that 
Moneybarn has agreed to pay is reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should, as it has agreed:
to cover any reasonable cost of having the historic fault codes cleared from the cars 
system; and
pay Mr C £200 in recognition of the car being advertised with a full service  history 
when this was not the case
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9932483