K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined  her home 
insurance claim for damage  caused to her home  by dry rot. 
background
In early 2018, Miss T was having some house renovations  done.  When  the flooring was 
removed, extensive  dry rot was discovered. There had been a hidden  water leak under the 
floor that had been ongoing for a period of time which had caused dry rot to the floorboards  
and floor joists. Miss T made a claim  to RSA under her home insurance policy. RSA declined  
the claim on the grounds that dry rot was specifically excluded from cover under her policy  
terms. 
Miss T complained to RSA. She said shed had to pay £10,000 to have the damage treated. 
She also said shed  been on this services  website and had noticed we said that dry rot 
should be covered  if the consumer was unaware it was happening.  
RSA said it was relying on the policy  wording  and that rot caused  by an escape of water  was 
also excluded from cover. RSA said Miss Ts claim remained declined.
Unhappy with RSAs  decision Miss T complained to this service.  Our adjudicator  looked  into 
her complaint but didnt think RSA had wrongly  declined her claim so he didnt recommend 
that it was upheld. He said her policy  specifically  excluded  rot caused directly or indirectly  by 
any other cause covered  by the terms and conditions.  
Miss T disagreed with our adjudicators findings. 
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in January 2019. 
I made  the following provisional  findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I dont dispute  that the policy terms exclude  cover  for any loss or damage of any kind caused 
by rot whether or not its caused directly  or indirectly by any other cover included in the 
policy. Common to most  insurance policies,  theres  also an exclusion  for any damage 
caused gradually. So applying the terms of the policy, Miss T isnt covered for rot damage 
and RSAs decision not to pay for it was in line with the insurance  terms and conditions. 
But this service has a long standing approach to gradual damage which  RSA is no doubt  
aware of. We say its unfair for an insurer to rely on the gradual damage  exclusion to decline 
a claim if the damage was caused by something  that is covered by the policy (like an escape  
of water) and the policyholder was unaware,  or couldnt reasonably have been aware, that 
the damage was occurring. Theres  no suggestion that Miss T was aware  the damage was 
occurring. It was hidden  from view and was only revealed as a result of the renovation work 
she was undertaking.  
Our approach to gradual damage is adopted  because the initial  cause of the damage 
(escape of water)  is something thats covered by the policy.  And its unfair to deny a 
policyholder the cover  provided by the policy when theyve done  nothing wrong and its 
Ref: DRN92706182simply the case that the leak wasnt severe  enough to mean  the damage showed  
immediately.
I think the same approach  can fairly  be adopted in this case. There  are two different 
exclusions in Miss Ts policy which RSA has relied  on to decline the claim  the one for rot 
and the other for damage caused gradually. But rot is something that happens gradually; 
and rot can be substituted and/or  interchanged with gradual  damage. I do appreciate that 
rot is a specific form of gradual  damage whereas gradual damage covers  all damage caused 
gradually. 
If, for the reasons Ive set out above,  its unfair  for RSA to rely on the gradual damage 
exclusion to decline the claim then it follows that it must  also be unfair for it to rely on the rot 
exclusion. That being the case, I think it was unfair for RSA to have declined Miss Ts claim 
for rot damage to her floor and joists. 
RSA is aware of this services approach  to rot claims  and should, I think, have applied it to 
Miss Ts case.  Not only is our approach to rot cases stated on our website  that we think its 
fair and consistent  to look at a specific rot exclusion in the same way we look at a gradual 
damage exclusion - but Miss T also drew RSAs  attention to the fact it was. This is a claim 
that should not have  been  declined. Miss T should not have been put to the inconvenience 
of taking out finance to undertake the repairs to her floor. For this I think RSA should pay her 
compensation of £150.
Miss T replied to say she accepted my provisional  findings in full. RSA replied and made  the 
following points: 
That the damage was visible because when  Miss T reported  the claim it said she told 
it there was also damage to the plasterboard  and walls in the dining room;
That Miss T hadnt offered it a copy of the rot report or details of the reinstatement 
works. If it had, and thered been  mention in it of work needed to the walls then its 
clear that such work would have been visible to Miss T. 
The complaint was passed  back to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I appreciate  that RSA will be 
disappointed, Ive not been  persuaded by what its said to change  my mind. 
I can see from RSAs claim history  log that theres  a note to say that Miss T had damage to 
her plasterboard  and the walls in the dining room. The note doesnt say if this was visible or 
concealed nor does it say how or when it had been caused. It says further  down in the note 
she didnt notice this leak. Further  down again it mentions that Miss T said her laminate 
flooring had been removed but was undamaged. That it wasnt  until the floor was removed 
that the damage was noticeable. Another entry in the log says We discussed the event, 
EOW which has been ongoing and caused dry rot in the floorboards underneath the kitchen. 
The PH was only made  aware of this when  carrying out renovation works. 
I cant see that RSA ever asked Miss T if she would send it a copy of her rot report. I dont 
find that surprising  because it didnt matter to RSA if dry rot was identified  in the house or 
not. Thats because  it said dry rot was excluded from cover. It didnt need to see the report to 
decline the claim. 
Ref: DRN92706183Ive seen a copy  of the report and it is very short. It says: 
As discussed, our quotation  detailed that the dry rot was resulting from a suspected 
plumbing leak, however  inspection  was severely  limited due to the floor coverings etc. 
Following removal of the laminates and floorboards, a plumbing leak was found  to be 
present in the sub floor which your own plumber has now repaired
The report  makes no mention of work needed  to the walls. The report  supports Miss Ts 
complaint that the leak was undetectable. Miss T makes no mention  in her complaint to this 
service of any wall damage. 
On balance, I think its reasonable  to conclude that the escape  of water was un-noticeable 
until the floorboards  were lifted. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision as its 
unfair for RSA to rely on the gradual  damage  exclusion  to decline the claim then it follows  
that it must  also be unfair for it to rely on the rot exclusion. That being the case,  I think it 
was unfair  for RSA to have declined Miss Ts claim for rot damage to her floor and joists.  
Nothing it said in response to my provisional decision has persuaded me that my provisional 
findings were unfairly reached. So my provisional  findings now form part of these findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to settle Miss Ts claim in full by paying, within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that 
Miss T accepts my final decision (if she does so), an amount equal to the costs  she incurred 
in repairing the damage,  plus interest* at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Miss T 
paid her contractors invoice to the date it pays this award.
I also require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to pay Miss T compensation of £150 for 
the trouble and upset its decision to decline the claim caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before date 4 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should  tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9270618