K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a two single  premium and one monthly premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies,  all taken out in 1998 with personal loans. Each  of the policies 
covered Mr T but not Mrs T.
The two single premium  policies were taken out in March and May that year with the monthly 
premium policy being  taken out in July. Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  Building Society 
mis-sold all three policies.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt  raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  their  
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have  to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen that Mr T ticked a box to show he 
wanted to take out the PPI with the May 1998 policy.  And whilst Nationwide hasnt  been  able 
to provide actual  copies  of the applications for the other two policies, from what Ive seen 
Mr T would still have  been given a choice  about whether or not to take the PPI cover. Finally, 
Ive seen that each of the three loan agreements referred to the PPI as being  optional  so 
Mr and Mrs T would  have  seen they didnt have to have the PPI if they didnt want it or 
decided to change  their minds about it before signing each agreement. 
Ref: DRN96049112 Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T - so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give them  enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide  for themselves if it was right for them.
 Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr T. Although Mr T 
told us about an operation  hed had more than forty years earlier, I dont think  better  
information about the medical condition exclusion clauses in each of the policies wouldve 
caused Mr and Mrs T to change their minds  about Mr T taking them out. I say this taking into 
account that the operation  was a routine and relatively commonplace  operation that was 
unlikely to have  any adverse effect  on his health  in the future.  So  I dont think Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve acted any differently had they known more about the exclusions.  
 It also looks like each of the policies was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  And the two single premium policies would 
have provided  a pro rata refund when they were cancelled so Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have 
been left out of pocket. Because of this I dont  think Mr and Mrs T would have declined the 
cover had Nationwide done anything more.
 While  the policies  contained exclusions on claims relating to mental  health  
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
exclusions, the they werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mr T. So I think  they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take each policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. The policies were  
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting, and I think  each  policy 
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time, given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out these policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of their individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN96049113my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9604911