K820x#14complaint
D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC decided to close its accounts without giving a reason.
background
Mr N, who is a director of D, is unhappy with Lloyds as he thinks  it has unfairly decided to 
close all of Ds accounts.
Lloyds wrote to Mr N in October  2018  and made him aware the accounts were due to close  
in December 2018. Mr N requested an explanation as to why Lloyds  decided  to close  the 
accounts, but this wasnt  provided. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She noted the terms and 
conditions of the account say the bank must provide 60 days notice to the consumer and as 
Lloyds sent a letter giving that notice she felt it was entitled to close the accounts thereafter.  
She also noted that Mr N said he felt Lloyds was discriminating  and that the decision to close 
the account was not a commercial decision but a personal reason. Mr N believes someone 
at Lloyds is attempting to flash his power  and authority  in the organisation. The investigator 
said she hadnt seen  anything that would  make her think that. Finally she noted that as one 
of the accounts  has an outstanding balance Lloyds hasnt been able to close this account as 
the debt needs to be repaid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make it clear that this is only a decision about the accounts of D. Mr N has also 
complained about other accounts which have  been  closed; this decision is not about those 
closures.
I can understand Mr Ns frustration here. But Lloyds doesnt have to give him a reason to 
close the account. It just has to give the notice set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. I understand that Mr N feels there  has been discrimination. From  what I have seen I 
am not persuaded that there  has been any discrimination or that anyone has acted  against  D 
for personal  reasons. I therefore  wont be upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9446029