K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited rejected the claim he made to them under Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) about a problem hed experienced with a car.
background
In April 2018 Mr D bought a car for £5,400 using his MBNA credit card. 
About four months  later Mr D noticed  the rear of his vehicle had dropped. So he took it to a 
local garage for inspection who advised him that the rear shock  absorbers had failed and he 
was quoted £240 for repair.
Mr D was unhappy that the rear shock absorbers  had failed after such a short  period of time 
and so he contacted the dealer  who sold the car. But when he couldnt resolve the problem 
with them  he raised a Section 75 claim with MBNA. He didnt think the car had been sold as 
described as the online  advert said it was in superb condition and he says the dealer told 
him that it was incredibly  reliable. And so he claimed for the cost of repair as well as 
compensation for the loss of use of his car and the trouble this matter had caused  him. 
MBNA rejected the claim as they werent satisfied  a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation had taken  place.  They said the car had passed an MOT the day before 
purchase and so they considered it road worthy at that time. And as the car had covered 
about 4000 miles over the four month  period before the fault became  apparent,  they 
considered there wasnt anything to show the fault was present at the time of purchase as 
shock absorbers are deemed  a consumable  part.
Mr D complained to MBNA  about this but they didnt change their position. 
The matter  was referred to our service. Our investigator looked  in to it but she didnt think  
MBNA had acted unfairly by rejecting the claim. She explained that used cars will show 
some signs  of wear and tear which is reflected in the price. And that she wouldve expected 
Mr D to have noticed  the problem  sooner had it been present at the time of purchase.  So 
she thought it was more likely that the fault had occurred after this and that it was as a result 
of the cars age and mileage, along  with general wear and tear. So she didnt think  the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality or that it had been misrepresented when sold.
Mr D disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In certain circumstances (which Im satisfied applied here),  Section 75 gives a consumer a 
like claim  against the provider of finance  as they would have against the supplier  of the 
goods and/or services,  if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by them.  So 
I have taken this into account when deciding  what is fair and reasonable for MBNA to do 
here.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.
Ref: DRN97864832To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
This car was around eight  years  old with over 55,000 miles on the clock  and cost £5,400. As 
such, I think a reasonable person would appreciate theres likely to be some wear  and tear 
present and parts will probably need to be replaced or repaired sooner or later - and thats 
reflected in the price paid.
Mr D says the problem  became  apparent  after he noticed the rear of his vehicle had 
dropped. But this was four months after the car was purchased and after it had travelled a 
further 4000 miles. So I think if there  was a problem with them at the time of purchase, then I 
wouldve expected  this to have become apparent sooner. 
Ive also taken in to consideration that MBNA  contacted the repairer  but they were unable  to 
confirm whether the problem with the rear shock absorbers wouldve been  present when the 
car was purchased.  Im therefore not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that 
there was a problem  with the shock absorbers when it was bought  by Mr D. It seems likely  
that the issue developed  later on after Mr D had travelled in the car for several  thousand 
miles.
Mr D has said that shock absorbers have a relatively long life and should  last for a minimum 
of five years  and 50,000 miles.  I appreciate that parts are expected to be reasonably 
durable. However, I have  had regard to the advanced age and mileage of the car when Mr D 
purchased it, along with the miles he was able to travel before the shock  absorbers failed. I 
have also considered the nature of the failure  alongside this (not a major component  failure 
and a relatively low cost repair). Overall,  in the particular circumstances I consider it is not 
unreasonable to expect  a repair of this kind being part of the usually expected  maintenance 
that goes along with running a car of this age and mileage.
Mr D has pointed out that the car was described  in a particular way which  led him to believe 
it would  not have a problem with the shock absorbers when it did. Hes argued that the car 
was misrepresented by the dealers in the online advertisement as well as verbally  when it 
was sold to him. He says he wouldnt  expect a car described as being in superb  condition 
or incredibly  reliable to experience problems as soon as it did. 
It isnt clear how the car was verbally described.  But it was described  as being in superb 
condition in the advert so I expect it is likely the dealer  used similar language when 
describing it in person.  Ive carefully considered what Mr D has said about the description of 
the car and while I understand  his disappointment with whats happened, I dont think  I can 
fairly say the dealers misrepresented the cars condition when it was sold. Or that the 
particular description  would mean  he shouldve  expected the shock absorbers to last longer 
than they did. Ill explain why.
The car passed an MOT  the day before it was purchased.  So Im satisfied that the car had 
been checked in line with the relevant industry  standards and thereby deemed roadworthy. It 
also received a service  at this time to ensure it was running reliably and safely. I appreciate  
that an MOT and service wont inspect all parts of a car or pick up all of its faults,  if any. But I 
think they give a good indication as to the overall condition of the vehicle  at that time. The 
aesthetics of a car is also a factor when describing  its condition as well. And so describing a 
Ref: DRN97864833car as being  in superb  condition doesnt necessarily mean all of its components are free 
from wear and tear. So I dont think Mr D was given false information or that what he was 
told was specific enough for a reasonable person  to expect (considering the age and 
mileage of the car) that the shock absorbers would not need repairing when they did.
I appreciate Mr D says that he assumed the shock absorbers wouldve already  been 
replaced when  he purchased  the car. And that had he known otherwise then he wouldve 
negotiated the repair cost off the sale price.  But while Im sympathetic to Mr Ds position, I 
dont think I can fairly  hold MBNA responsible  for his assumption. There isnt anything I have 
seen that would suggest it was reasonable to assume the shock absorbers  had been 
replaced. And I dont  think it would  be usual for components  in a second hand  car to be 
routinely replaced  before  sale unless specifically  agreed.
Based on what I have discussed above  I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory  quality at 
the point of sale. I know that Mr D has said that because  his car broke down within  the first 
six months it must  be assumed it did not conform to the contract when supplied. I have had 
regard to what he says and what the law says. But I think  that in this case  there is enough 
information to show that the goods were  likely  of satisfactory quality when supplied  and that 
the need for repair is due to usually expected wear and tear rather  than a breach of contract 
by the supplier.
Additionally, for the reasons given above I am also not persuaded what was said about the 
car when  it was sold would amount to a misrepresentation.
Mr D has also said that the reason he didnt get the car inspected to establish why the rear 
shock absorbers had failed was because MBNA told him to proceed with the repairs  and 
then claim the costs back. Ive listened  to the call in question and Im satisfied MBNA 
explained to Mr D that theyd need  to review the claim first and that the outcome wasnt 
guaranteed. So although I understand Mr Ds need  to repair  the car for his personal use, I 
dont think MBNA acted wrongly or mis-informed him at this time.
Overall, and taking into account the relevant law, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require MBNA to pay for the repair  costs  he is claiming  or 
to take any other action  in response to Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9786483