K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  unfairly increased the 
premium to be paid for his motorbike policy from the original quote, due an accident  that 
wasnt Mr Fs fault.
background
Mr F used  a comparison  website to find a new policy and obtained a quote from Advantage. 
When he went to accept  it, Advantage  said the premium payable  had to be increased  
because of an accident where  Mr Fs motorbike was hit by another  vehicle, when it was 
parked.
Mr F didnt  think  this was fair as the accident wasnt his fault and Advantage werent  involved 
with the claim in any event.
Advantage said the accident was now part of his insurance history so had to be taken into 
account. And that meant his premium was correctly increased from the original quote Mr F 
had obtained.
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong. Mr F disagreed so his complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I do understand why Mr F feels so aggrieved and frustrated with this, when this 
accident wasnt his fault at all given his motorbike was parked at the time. But thats not how 
assessing the risk posed to insurers works, Ill explain this below.
As the adjudicator explained,  we dont regulate insurers at this service, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  does. What the FCA does, is to set rules  on how insurers should  
treat their customers and indeed set rules so that all insurers customers  are treated fairly. 
What this service does is to assess whether Advantage kept to the rules and did indeed  treat 
Mr F fairly.
Ref: DRN98228802Every insurance company  is a commercial business.  So every  insurer,  to include Advantage, 
has the right to decide what  risks it wants to cover  and indeed, what  premium it wants  to 
charge for that cover. They assess this risk by asking questions which applicants like Mr F 
have to answer honestly. The number  of previous claims on the same  thing to be insured  
made by the applicant,  here Mr F for his motorbike, forms part of that risk analysis, not just 
for Advantage but for every insurer willing to insure  a motorbike. The statistical principles 
used by actuaries  in insurance companies to assess the risk of a further claim being made, 
includes all claims made within the last usually five or three years,  even if the policyholder  
like Mr F wasnt responsible for causing that accident. And invariably the fact that any claim 
has been made within the relevant  time period, (even if like Mr F, he couldnt have at all 
been responsible) tends to then increase the risk under these  statistical principles. So thats 
why Advantage  asked  Mr F to pay a higher premium than it originally quoted, when it found 
out Mr Fs motorbike had been hit when it was parked and he had to make a claim,
It doesnt matter that Advantage  wasnt at all involved  with that claim,  and it also doesnt 
matter that Mr F wasnt at all responsible for causing  that claim.  Its solely  to do with 
statistical forecasting which all insurers use in forecasting  the likelihood  of a claim being  
made for the policy  year its about  to insure that applicant for. And has very little to do Mr F 
personally, other than he was unfortunate enough  to have his bike damaged  when it was 
parked. The extent of the increase to the premium  will usually vary from insurer  too.
Here, Advantage explained to us that it considers every applicants driving history.  If claims 
were made, to include claims that was caused by someone else, that then increases  the risk, 
which is why it said the premium to insurer Mr Fs motorbike would be higher than what was 
initially quoted  to him. I dont consider Advantage did anything  wrong  in doing this as first its 
entitled to do this by the regulations set by the FCA and secondly, it does this for every  
applicant in Mr Fs situation. So essentially Advantage hasnt done anything  wrong  and 
because it treats all applicants the same,  it also hasnt treated Mr F unfairly.
Neither this service nor I has any power  or remit to tell insurers what to charge their 
customers, nor indeed how to assess any risk. Thats solely  a matter for the insurers to do, 
within the regulations set by the FCA.
my final decision
So whilst I do understand Mr F will be disappointed  with my decision,  for these reasons its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822880