K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way that National House-Building Council (NHBC)  dealt 
with their claim under section 2 (years 1and  2) of their building  warranty in respect of 
inadequate heating/insulation.
background 
Mr and Mrs S bought their property  in 2010. From  then until late 2016 they had been  
negotiating unsuccessfully with the builders over the fact that the property was too cold and 
couldnt be kept warm to an adequate temperature. The builders  had carried  out a number of 
investigations and thermal surveys but hadnt  remedied the problem. As they felt they 
couldnt live in the property as it was, and Mrs S was suffering ill health  they decided  to 
purchase another property which they moved  into in December 2015.  On the builders 
advice Mr and Mrs S approached NHBC in September 2016. NHBC agreed  to operate its 
resolution service.
After a site meeting in November 2016  NHBC instructed the builders to obtain an 
independent thermal  survey report.  The builders  declined to do so and asked NHBC to take 
the matter over. NHBC  duly did so and after receipt of the report, in March  2017 
recommended that the areas  of the property where  the survey  had noted  were too cold be 
investigated for the presence of insulation.  It instructed the builders to carry out the work 
identified as needed. Again, they failed to do so and asked NHBC to take the matter over. 
NHBC again agreed to do so. In the meantime,  Mr S had written  to NHBC to advise it he 
wasnt satisfied with the proposed investigative works. He further advised it that he had 
discovered that the ducting around the kitchen extractor fan hadnt  been fitted correctly. 
NHBC reinvestigated that and instructed that the ducting be refitted and sealed  following a 
meeting at the property in April 2018. It was also proposed that further work take place to 
remedy this.
Some work was carried out by NHBCs contractor in June 2018. Mr S had identified that the 
cavity wall insulation was defective. It was agreed that this would be looked at together with 
the works  already carried out.
NHBC issued  a final response letter on 24 August 2018. It agreed that the matter could have 
progressed in a more timely manner and that Mr S had had to do a lot of chasing. It said it 
would continue to carry out investigations into the cavity wall insulation, but in the meantime 
said it would  pay £550 compensation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  pointed  out that NHBC only became responsible  
for the work  after it has started operating its resolution service. She said that NHBC should 
increase its compensation to £1,000, explaining that she was only considering matters up 
until the final response letter of August 2018.
NHBC advised us that it had carried  out further investigations and in September 2018 
recommended that the builder undertake further  work.  The builder confirmed to NHBC that 
the work  had been completed. Mr S disputed  that and advised  NHBC that he was 
withdrawing from the resolution service and would be pursuing the builder by alternative 
methods. Mr S has confirmed that to us. I understand that he still wants  a decision 
concerning issues  up until August 2018.  He doesnt think  the compensation recommended  is 
sufficient. Additionally, he wants to claim further  expenses in respect of the home being 
uninhabitable.
Ref: DRN91102082The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In initially considering Mr and Mrs Ss claims against the builder NHBC was operating its 
resolution scheme. I should explain that whilst it is operating that scheme, it is not 
undertaking a regulated activity over which this service has jurisdiction. So, in agreeing to 
consider the matter and going  out to the property and resolving that the builders take action, 
it was not carrying  out a regulated activity.  I understand  that following the November 2016 
site meeting NHBC required the builders to take action, that was to carry out a thermal  
survey report, by 20 January 2017.  Although some  time before that date, in December 2016,  
the builders had declined to take that action and asked NHBC to take the matter  over.  
NHBC issued  further resolution reports throughout 2017 and 2018.  Whist it continued,  in 
some cases  to require the builders  to take action  and on later dates agreed  to take over the 
repairs/investigations, I think it fair to say that NHBC became responsible for dealing  with the 
matter after 19 December  2016.  I think it was clear from that date that the builders didnt 
want to carry out any further work/repairs,  and had specifically requested that NHBC take 
the matter over. So I have to consider whether the £1,000 total proposed  as compensation 
up until 24 August is fair and reasonable.
There were delays in the thermal  survey  report becoming available after NHBC took over 
carrying out the necessary survey. After the site meeting in November  2016,  the resolution  
report was sent to the builders, who made it clear that they wanted NHBC to take over. After 
exchanges of emails I think it was agreed  that NHBC  would do this by 19 December. It didnt 
however instruct  its contractor to carry out the thermal survey report for over a month,  and 
that report wasnt available until early March 2017.
Work was required  to expose the insulation in various parts and to establish what needed  to 
be done. NHBC persisted  in instructing  the original builders despite their making it clear they 
werent willing to do the work. This was due to a breakdown in the relationship between them 
and Mr and Mrs S. This led to delays  in instructing alternative contractors. 
Essentially after several  site meetings  and reports throughout 2017, the work required to fit 
new insulation was carried out in January 2018.  Mr S wasnt  satisfied that that had resolved 
the problem and identified further  issues with the ducting in the kitchen. NHBC reported in 
March and April 2018 and the further work was carried out in June 2018.
In the meantime Mr S identified problems with the cavity  wall insulation. That issue had to be 
referred back to the contractors who carried out the thermal survey. It was agreed in June 
2018 that further work was required on the cavity wall insulation,  but NHBC reverted to the 
original builders, causing more delay. This issue was essentially then dealt  with after August 
2018 so I wont  be looking at it any further.
Mr and Mrs S had suffered problems  with the coldness of the home  for over six years before 
NHBC got involved. I think NHBC progressed the matter too slowly, causing delays by 
instructing the builders  after they had refused to be involved and in persisting in further  
instructing them. Also delays were  caused  because the full extent of the insulation problem 
Ref: DRN91102083wasnt identified. Determining what has caused  a house to be cold is difficult  to do but 
nevertheless I think that NHBC did cause  delay in this respect.
NHBC offered £550 compensation.  Our investigator  proposed that this be increased to 
£1,000 which NHBC agreed to. I think,  for the time that NHBC had responsibility for the 
matter, up until 24 August 2018 that that is a reasonable award of compensation and is in 
line with awards we have made in similar cases.  I note that Mr and Mrs S werent living at 
the property but it would have caused  a lot of inconvenience and anxiety.
I turn now to Mr and Mrs Ss claim for financial losses. These include the extra  heating  costs, 
a figure  for monthly rent, and their monthly  mortgage payment on their new property. 
Mr and Mrs S had bought  and moved  into the new property some time before NHBC took 
the matter over. It was their choice  to do so, not influenced by anything  NHBC did or didnt 
do. 
That said I dont think that the bulk of Mr and Mrs Ss claim amounts to actual  losses. They  
shouldnt have incurred  extra heating  costs because they werent  living there. I havent seen 
evidence that they put the house  up for rent or had taken any steps to do so. I appreciate 
that they may have wanted to sort out the heating  problem before selling or renting, but 
those costs are speculative and we dont make awards for that. And the incurring  of 
mortgage payments  or any other cost on their new property is something  they chose to do 
and isnt a loss as such.  So I wont make any award  for those costs. 
Mr S also makes a claim for actual costs incurred on the property  in question,  and his costs 
for travelling to and from it. I think  those  costs were essentially  incurred because  of their 
choice, before NHBCs involvement, to buy a new property. So I wont  make an award  for 
those. And I think the compensation award  adequately covers the inconvenience of this, 
bearing in mind that further issues arose after August 2018.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs S should  be paid £1,000 for distress and inconvenience, but I 
dont intend to make any award for financial  losses.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require National House-Building Council to pay to Mr and Mrs S 
£1,000 a total of compensation, including the £550  already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9110208