K822xComplaint
Miss D is unhappy with what Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
has offered to do to put things right as a result of irresponsibly giving her a Safety Net 
Facility.
Background
Miss D approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2016. This was a running  credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a Safety Net 
amount of the customers choosing. Miss D was given a facility with an initial  credit  limit of 
£200. Miss Ds credit  limit was increased eight  times  until it reached  £530 in January 2017.    
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ds complaint and concluded that SNC shouldnt  
have provided  Miss D with her Safety Net facility. And in order to put things right,  he told 
SNC to refund  all the interest and charges Miss D paid plus interest before deducting any 
unpaid capital from the compensation. 
SNC agreed  to this but Miss D was unhappy as shes  still been left with an outstanding 
balance to repay. As Miss D disputes  the proposed settlement the case has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think what  SNC has agreed to do is fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Miss Ds case. Id like to explain why I 
think this.
Both Miss D and SNC  are in agreement  that Miss D shouldnt  have been given her Safety 
Net facility and any funds as a result. So I dont  need to look at whether SNCs checks were 
reasonable and proportionate, I only need decide whether what it has offered to do to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.  
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put 
a consumer in the position  theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt  
have. 
But Miss D was given  her facility and she used the funds. So its simply not possible  to put 
Miss D in the position she would be in if she hadnt  been given  her Safety Net facility in the 
first place. And we have  to look at what else we can do to put things right in a way thats  fair 
to all parties. In reality its the (increasing) interest and charges on this credit, on the 
complaints that are upheld, thats  the main consequence of the business giving a consumer 
a loan it shouldnt  have. 
Ref: DRN97607022As a result, where  a lender provided  a consumer with credit it shouldnt  have, wed expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and 
charges on that loan.  This means wed normally expect a lender  to refund the interest  and 
charges added to any loan that shouldnt have been  given. 
And if those  interest  and charges  were paid also add 8% simple  interest  per year.  The lender 
will normally  also remove  adverse information   rather  than all reference to the loan - 
recorded on the consumers credit file as a result  of the interest and charges on those loans. 
And given  the consumer  will have had and used the funds wed usually expect the funds 
borrowed to be repaid. 
Having looked  at whats been  provided,  it seems to me thats what SNC has done  here.  The 
information provided shows Miss D paid a total amount of £369.54 in interest, fees and 
charges to SNC. The compensatory  interest  due as a result of Miss D not having had the 
use of these funds  is £82.21 (the total amount of interest is actually £102.76  but SNC is 
required to deduct  £20.55  in tax). This means  that the total amount of compensation is 
£451.75. But Miss D still owes  SNC  £529.23  once the interest from her last drawdown has 
been removed.  So on these figures its clear  to see that Miss D owes SNC more  than it owes  
her in compensation and thats  why shes left with a balance of £77.48 to repay. 
Miss D hasnt challenged these figures or provided  anything to say that SNC has incorrectly  
recorded the payments shes made.  It seems  as though Miss D is simply unhappy with being 
left with an outstanding balance. But Im satisfied that the facts of this case means its fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss D to repay the amount outstanding and as this is the case, I 
think that what SNC has agreed  to do adequately reflects its failure to fulfil its obligations 
when assessing  Miss Ds application for credit. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about what Miss D has said, I think  what  SNC  has 
agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of her particular case.  And I dont 
think it needs to do anything more in order to put things right for Miss D. 
My decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think what Indigo  Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit) has agreed to do is a fair way to put things right in this case. So Im not 
asking it to do anything  more, or anything different.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9760702