K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with his 
home insurance claim for water damage  to his property. 
background
In November 2017 Mr S suffered water  damage to his home  after a leak from a cylinder 
tank. He made a claim to RSA, it accepted the claim and organised contractors to carry out 
the repairs. But he still has outstanding items which, despite repeated contact,  RSA has 
failed to deal with. These are damage to his vacuum cleaner (which  the contractors used 
and damaged), and the cleaning up of stains to his fireplace. The contractors also damaged 
his carpet  and wheelie bin with paint. There are also a number  of snagging items which  are 
outstanding, which RSA had agreed to deal with but failed to resolve.  He also said that RSA 
had agreed to refund his excess of £300, but had failed  to do so.
On referral to this service,  our adjudicator said that RSA should  reimburse  Mr S for the 
replacement vacuum  cleaner hed bought and the cost he had paid for cleaning  his fireplace. 
He further said that RSA should pay to replace his carpet and, if his local authority doesnt 
replace it, his wheelie bin. He further proposed that RSA pay compensation of £500, leaving 
it to its discretion whether it would refund the excess.
RSA responded  that it had agreed to refund the excess and to pay compensation of £300. It 
wasnt sure why this hadnt been done.  It agreed  the refund for the vacuum cleaner and 
would arrange  cleaning of the fireplace.  So far as the carpet  is concerned, it said it had 
instructed carpet specialists but they had been  unable to contact Mr S.
Mr S pointed out that he still has number of outstanding snagging issues which werent 
addressed by our adjudicator and which RSA has failed to deal with.
I issued a provisional decision. Whilst agreeing with the adjudicators view, I noted  the 
snagging issues hadnt been addressed. Also RSAs  offer would result in a slightly increased 
award for Mr S.
Mr S was unhappy with my decision.  He pointed  out several issues which he felt should 
increase the award of compensation, which Ill deal with below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
damaged items
Its clear that Mr S had to buy a new vacuum cleaner and I dont think this is disputed. RSA 
should reimburse him for this with interest. Similarly he has paid for his fireplace to be 
cleaned and again RSA should reimburse him for this. As for the wheelie bin, having  seen  
the photo its clear  that this has been severely damaged by paint. If Mr S has to pay for a 
replacement then RSA should reimburse  him. He should be able to obtain  one through  his 
local authority.
Ref: DRN93322612carpet
The carpet has been damaged by paint spots  in various areas.  RSA asserts  that it had 
arranged for carpet specialists to visit Mr S but they had been unable get a response  from 
Mr S to organise this. Ive noted  that RSA has failed to supply its file to us and its in some  
difficulty responding because the complaint handler is no longer  employed by it. As far as I 
can see from the evidence Mr S kindly supplied, RSA instructed recovery  specialists to 
examine and clean the carpet.  They duly did this and agreed with Mr S they would reinspect 
once it had dried out. Their conclusions were:
No additional restoration works could be carried out to the affected carpets. All works  
carried out .. are now complete.
Recommendations: It would be recommended that [Mr S] discuss carpet replacement with 
Insurers as markings are the result of Building  Contractors carrying out reinstatement  works 
and not the result of initial water damage.
This appears  to me to be quite clear, and I cant see why it would be necessary to instruct  
another specialist.  RSA should pay for the cost of replacing the carpet. For the avoidance  of 
doubt, this is in the lounge, hallway, and on the stairs and first floor landing.
snagging
Mr S says that a number  of issues remain outstanding, despite RSAs agreement  to deal 
with them.  RSA should now take action  to complete the following outstanding matters:
 
Lounge - Cracking has appeared at the ceiling and wall juncture to be filled and 
repainted.
Lounge  complete  painting of the repairs  to the ceiling
Shaded patch to painted wall to the bottom of the stairs opposite  the hand rail. Needs 
stain blocking and repainting. 
Uneven edges in the living  room to be resolved.
Stairs and landing   redecorate wall
Stairs  smooth out and repaint plastering  round hand rail.
The above  is a summary  RSA will have full details. It should arrange  with Mr S for this to 
be done.
compensation
 
I note that RSA had previously agreed that the excess would be refunded. I havent been 
shown evidence that it had also offered to pay compensation  of £300. As I would regard the 
refund of an excess to be compensation,  I would  propose that RSA pay Mr S a total of £600.  
Whether it does this by a refund of the excess and compensation or a straight  payment  of 
compensation is a matter  for it.
In summary  Mr S isnt satisfied with my proposed award for compensation because: 
He had to make  repeated complaints to several  parties, resulting in him having to spend 
considerable time and effort repeating issues.
RSA initially alleged  the works  were  reasonable and it was only after further complaints 
and following their senior surveyor's  visit that it agreed the work  was unacceptable.
Ref: DRN93322613RSA failed to deal with the issues or his complaints within  a reasonable period of time 
and it is now some 18 months since the claim event.
RSA hasn't even  responded  to his complaint or apologised and by the time it is 
eventually resolved it will be nearly  two years  since his claim.
He has had to endure  repeated visits and disturbance  by tradesmen and RSAs agents  
and which will continue given that the work remains incomplete.
He was also inconvenienced by RSA failing to replace the vacuum/bin or clean the 
fireplace them which required him to spend time dealing  with them.
The contractors damaged the carpets.  Any replacement is also going to cause  him 
inconvenience due to having to move furniture and belongings etc and RSA should 
compensate him for such.
He has the same  carpets  in the whole  house and replacement of part in some areas and 
not others is going to cause a considerable amount of inconvenience and ruin his 
furnishing. RSA should compensate him for the different in carpet in different places.
I should point  out that I cant look at the way that RSA dealt with Mr Ss complaint, since that 
doesnt form part of the regulated activity which we have power  to consider complaints 
about. That said, I do find the lack of information from RSA on this claim to be disappointing. 
I can understand Mr Ss frustration.
In respect of the additional inconvenience  caused  to Mr S, and the further delays this will 
cause, I confirm have  taken those issues into account and I dont propose to increase the 
compensation award. In respect  of the carpets  I note that this will result  in a lack of match 
with his other carpets throughout the house. Whilst I understand that, against that he will get 
brand new carpets  for the areas in question, so Im not inclined to increase the 
compensation for that.
Overall I dont intend to change my findings  from my provisional findings.  Those  findings  are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
pay Mr S the cost of his replacement vacuum  cleaner  and cleaning  his fireplace. It 
should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the dates  he made the 
payments until the date it repays him.
pay any cost to Mr S of replacing his wheelie bin, on production  by him of any invoice 
for this.
pay to Mr S the cost of replacing  the carpet  in his  lounge and hallway and on his 
stairs and landing.
carry out the outstanding snagging  works to Mr Ss home,  as set out above.
pay to Mr S £600 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to him by 
the claim was handled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Ref: DRN93322614Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to take tax off any 
interest it pays to Mr S. Should Mr S request it, RSA should give Mr S a certificate  showing  
how much  tax it has taken off so he can reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9332261