K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi  Personal Finance,  hasnt  
replaced a faulty  clock  that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement.
background
Miss B used a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal Finance   that she signed in 
April 2018 to pay for some furniture, including a clock. The total cost of the furniture was 
£1,686.18 and the cost of the clock was £300. She says that the clocks faulty as the second 
hand doesnt stay where  it should. She complained to the supplier. It agreed  to replace the 
clock but the delivery options that it gave to Miss B werent acceptable  to her so she 
complained to Hitachi Personal Finance. She wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
supplier had offered  to replace the clock which he thought was a fair remedy and that Miss B 
and the supplier should discuss  the matter further and agree on a date and time for replacing 
the clock.
Miss B has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says she 
doesnt feel that shes being  unfair or unreasonable but she has commitments  and the 
supplier is being  unreasonable  about the delivery  of a replacement  for the faulty clock.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The supplier  says that its confirmed to Miss B on the phone and by e-mail that it would  
arrange a replacement or collection  and refund  of the reportedly  faulty  clock   and it offered 
to book her delivery  in for a morning or afternoon slot to make it more convenient. And it 
says that its also offered  to deliver the new clock to an alternative address  (including one of 
it showrooms) so that she doesnt  have to wait in for the delivery. But Miss B says that the 
clock wont fit into her car and that she can only accept a delivery after 5.30pm.
I consider that the suppliers response  to Miss Bs complaint has been fair and reasonable. It 
has offered to replace the faulty clock or to collect it and refund to Miss B the money that she 
paid for it. And its offered  her half day slots for that and offered her alternative delivery and 
collection arrangements.  But Miss B says that its only convenient with her for the delivery 
and collection to happen after 5.30pm. And she says that she wants  Hitachi Capital  to 
replace the clock or refund the £300  to her and to pay her compensation for the distress that 
shes been caused. 
I dont consider it to be fair or reasonable for Miss B to require the delivery of a replacement 
clock (or for the faulty clock to be collected) only after 5.30pm. I consider  that it would be fair 
and reasonable to expect her to be more  flexible about the delivery  arrangements  and to 
work with the supplier  to agree an arrangement that is mutually convenient. I consider that 
the suppliers response to Miss Bs complaint  has been fair and reasonable. Im not 
persuaded that Hitachi Personal Finance has acted incorrectly. So I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require it to take any action in response 
to Miss Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN96083192my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9608319