K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly declined  her travel insurance 
claim.
background 
Mrs H had a travel insurance policy which was underwritten by UKI, and in December 2018 
she was going  on a trip overseas with her son. Due to the timing  of the flights, Mrs H booked  
an overnight stay at an airport hotel for the night  before. And she also booked a taxi to travel  
to this hotel.
Mrs H had a disagreement during  a call with her bank (Bank  A) on the day she was due to 
stay at the airport hotel.  And she says it left her feeling very distressed. Around the time of 
the call with Bank A, the pre-booked taxi arrived at Mrs Hs property  for collection. But she 
didnt feel in a fit state  to travel at that point. So she cancelled and rearranged the taxi for 
later that day. But when  the time came again, she still didnt feel well. 
So Mrs H cancelled the taxi again, and travelled to the airport the following morning where 
she went on her trip as planned. But she still incurred charges for the airport  hotel and both 
of the cancelled taxis. So Mrs H complained to Bank A and subsequently this Service. And 
part of that complaint was about  how she believed Bank A should reimburse her for these 
costs. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  against Bank  A but didnt direct it to cover 
Mrs Hs losses  in relation to her travel  plans. So Mrs H made  a claim under her travel 
insurance policy for this instead. UKI considered  the claim and asked Mrs H to submit any 
relevant supporting evidence to substantiate it. But after looking into what  was provided, UKI 
concluded that as Mrs H didnt obtain  any medical evidence that confirmed she was too 
unwell to travel, it couldnt reasonably substantiate  the claim. So it declined it on that basis. 
Mrs H complained about UKIs decision. She said UKI had promised her it would fully 
investigate her claim by contacting this Service and Bank A to discuss her previous 
complaint, and that it would review the numerous documents shed sent in. Mrs H said that 
the reason she didnt  contact her GP is because Bank A told her it would cover any losses, 
but has since declined  to do this. She thought  UKI had given her a poor service throughout 
its handling of her claim.
UKI reviewed Mrs Hs complaint and upheld it in part. It said that when Mrs H first called  it to 
register the claim, it never shouldve asked her for supporting evidence as it was clear the 
claim wasnt covered. 
It also noted that it had sent an email to Mrs H, asking her to call it as it needed more 
information, when  in fact it was to tell her that the claim had been declined. This resulted in a 
lengthy call between Mrs H and UKI while she was abroad.  So it offered £100 compensation 
for any trouble  and upset caused.
But it maintained the claim had been fairly declined. It said that regardless of what Bank  A 
may or may not have  told Mrs H, the policy required her to provide a medical  certificate as 
part of the claim and she hadnt  done  this. And it didnt think  the additional evidence Mrs H 
provided was enough  for it not to require the medical certificate. Mrs H didnt think this was a 
fair outcome, so she brought  her complaint to this Service.
Ref: DRN95861292Our investigator looked into things and concluded that the claim had been fairly  declined. He 
thought it was fair that UKI required a medical certificate from Mrs H, and he didnt think it 
was unreasonable the claim had been  declined because  Mrs H hadnt provided  one.
But he also found  the policy didnt actually provide cover for Mrs Hs specific  circumstances. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint in relation to the claim. And he thought £100 was fair 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused. Mrs H disagreed with his findings, so the 
case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide in this case is whether  UKI was entitled to decline  Mrs Hs claim, 
and whether thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  And my starting 
point is to look at the policy terms and conditions  to see what cover is actually available  to 
Mrs H. 
Strictly speaking, in order for a claim to be considered, there needs to be an insured event. 
But Im not satisfied there was one in this case and Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs policy provides  cover for three main things  in relation to issues  with travel  which  are;
Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip)
Delayed Or Missed Departure  (on the day you are travelling)
Cutting Short Your Trip (after your trip has started)
I think its fair to say that Mrs H didnt  have a delayed or missed departure on the day she 
was travelling abroad. And she didnt need to cut short  the trip after itd started. So it seems 
that the only other term this claim might reasonably be considered under is cancellation. 
The cancellation part of the policy relates to cancelling the trip, and the word trip is defined  
under the policy  as; 
a journey that begins and ends at your home  during the period of insurance and which  is:
outside the UK; or
within the UK, where you are staying in pre-booked accommodation for three or more
consecutive days.
Mrs Hs pre-booked taxis  and airport accommodation were both inside the UK. And she was 
only due to stay at the airport hotel for one night. So the circumstances of Mrs Hs claim 
dont seem to meet  the requirements of the term, and so I dont think theyre covered under 
this part of the policy. And I cant see that theyre  covered anywhere else. So I think its fair 
for UKI to decline the claim, because from the information Ive seen, there doesnt seem  to 
be an insured event.
However Im aware UKI still considered Mrs Hs claim  and declined it because she failed to 
provide it with a medical certificate from a doctor.  Mrs H says she didnt get medical 
evidence because Bank A told her that she didnt  need to do this. She thinks that if UKI 
listened to the call she had with Bank A, it would be clear from the content of that call that 
she was too unwell to travel  the day before her trip. 
Ref: DRN95861293By it not doing  this, Mrs H thinks UKI has failed to properly  investigate her claim, and she 
says this goes  against  what it told her it would do. UKI decided it wasnt  necessary to do this 
as part of its investigation into the claim, because it said its claim handlers  arent  medically 
trained, and so wouldnt  be able to determine  from a call whether someone was well enough 
or not. It says this is why it asks for a medical  certificate from a doctor.  
Ill start by saying that Im sympathetic to Mrs Hs circumstances. I was very sorry to hear 
that she suffered  bereavement around  the time this situation occurred. And from what  shes 
told us  and what she said on the calls with UKI, I dont  doubt  that she was very upset  
during her call with Bank A. So she may well not have felt fit enough to travel. But I cant  
hold UKI responsible for the alleged actions or comments of Bank A. This has been 
considered under a separate complaint with this Service. In this case,  I can only look at what 
UKI is responsible for under the policy, taking  into account the specific circumstances. 
Its not unusual  for a travel insurer to require a medical certificate for illness  as part of a 
claim. And I dont think its unreasonable in this case that UKI has asked Mrs H for one. 
Mrs H has failed to provide this documentation, but Ive also considered  her comments  about  
UKI listening to the call she had with Bank  A. 
In my opinion, even if the call did evidence that Mrs H was very distressed, it would likely be 
difficult for a person  with no medical training  to decide whether  this was sufficient enough 
evidence to show that she wasnt fit to travel. So Im minded  to agree with UKI on this point. 
It follows that Im satisfied UKI has fairly  considered Mrs Hs claim and declined it in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So these points dont change my conclusion.
Mrs H is also unhappy that during  the initial claims call, UKI asked  her to send evidence 
relating to her claim when  it already knew at that point the claim wouldnt be covered.  Shes  
also unhappy it sent an email while she was on holiday asking her to call it to provide more 
information, and when she did this, she was told her claim had been declined.  UKI has 
apologised for both issues and offered £100  compensation  for any trouble and upset 
caused. But Mrs H thinks this amount isnt enough.
In relation to the email, I agree this was inaccurate, as UKI didnt need any more  information 
from Mrs H. So Ive considered the impact  this had on her. Mrs H says that it resulted in her 
being engaged in a lengthy and unnecessary phone call which wasnt  handled  properly. So it 
caused her a degree of trouble and upset.
 
During the call Mrs H had with UKI while she was on holiday, Im satisfied UKI was clear in 
its reasons why itd declined  the claim and it tried on several  occasions  to bring the call to a 
close. Mrs H was unhappy  with UKIs  response and continued to question  it throughout  the 
call. So naturally, the call went on for quite a long time. 
But I dont think UKI couldve done  much more than it did to prevent this, without potentially  
coming across as rude.  So Im satisfied it handled the call in a reasonable manner in the 
circumstances.
Ill now move  onto the initial claims call. Mrs H was told very early on in that call, that without 
medical evidence,  it was unlikely the claim would succeed. Mrs H was still adamant  that she 
wanted to make a formal  claim, so UKI agreed  to set one up and look into it fully. 
Ref: DRN95861294In my opinion, the travel  loss Mrs H was claiming for wasnt  entirely straightforward. So I 
dont think its unreasonable in this case that UKI chose to consider the claim and investigate 
it further before giving a final answer.  And Mrs H made it clear  that she wanted UKI to do this 
anyway  regardless of it being unlikely that the claim would succeed. 
UKI has said that it shouldnt have  asked Mrs H to send in evidence  for the claim and has 
acknowledged the error in the email.  Its apologised for both matters. Im aware its offered 
Mrs H £100 compensation for any trouble and upset this has caused  her. I think this offer is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So I wont  be directing UKI to increase 
this any further.
I know this isnt the answer  Mrs H was hoping for. And so my decision will likely come as a 
disappointment to her. But I hope she can understand why Ive decided this is a fair outcome 
for the reasons Ive explained.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mrs H £100 compensation if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586129