K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the loans  MYJAR  Limited gave to her and she wants  to be put back 
in the position she would  have been in if she had not taken the loans. She complained  to 
MYJAR mid-November 2018.
background
LoanDate  
approvedDate closed Principal sumTerm length 
as agreed
and actual in 
daysMonthly  
agreed 
Instalment  
(rounded)
15 December 
20168 July 2017* £925354
215£136
2 8 July 20174 February 
2018*£1,500335
211£218
324 March 
201824 July 2018* £625328
206£90
4 31 July 2018 £800 674 £60
* = repaid  early 
Using the information provided by MYJAR  I have  put brief details in a table and I have 
referred to the loans  by these numbers. The final loan remains outstanding  MYJAR has 
said that it was about  £594 due in March 2019. It would accept a repayment plan for it. 
MYJAR responded  to Mrs Ms complaint with its final response letter in February 2019. It 
explained that it had complied with the Financial Conduct  Authority  regulations and its 
website was designed to provide customers with all the information  they would need when 
applying for credit. It stressed that it would have provided all Mrs M needed in order to make  
an informed decision.  
It says that Loan  4 is a 24 month  loan and as such falls outside  the definition  of a high-cost  
short-term loan.
MYJAR pointed out that there  were  gaps in the lending  allowing Mrs Ms finances to 
replenish, the instalment nature of the loans allowed her to spread the cost and Mrs M 
repaid the loans early and so saved  a total of about £627 in interest.  
MYJAR concluded that We made our borrowing decision  based on all the information  
available to us and trusted  the details that she provided to us to be true and accurate.
It adds that the fact Mrs M took four loans means that no pattern in loan behaviours  could 
be identified as it was too few. 
In its submissions to this service MYJAR  explained  that it carried out checks  with a credit 
bureau and had its own scoring system.  
MYJAR summarises its submissions to us by saying: 
Based on the checks and the information  provided by Mrs M we believed  that we 
were providing her with affordable borrowing options. As she did not raise any 
concerns about  her financial  circumstances before taking  out the last loan from us, 
Ref: DRN96934452there was no reason  for us to suspect our loans  were unaffordable for her. In 
concluding the above, we are satisfied that all of our regulatory obligations have been 
met and that we have treated the customer fairly.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and his opinion  was that MYJAR should put 
things right for Mrs M in relation to all four loans.  MYJAR does not agree and says that the 
opinion was too brief and has asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The unresolved complaint  has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
The last loan may not fall into the formal  definition of a high-cost short-term loan but 
MYJAR has not explained why it has raised this point. It follows on from Mrs Ms other  loans 
in sequence and still MYJAR needed to lend responsibly. So it has been considered  along  
with the others.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
Ref: DRN96934453as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
The report  from MYJARs credit bureau shows that in December 2016  the balance  on eleven  
of Mrs Ms existing  accounts had increased and Mrs M had unsecured debt of about £1,560. 
The report  shows that Mrs M had opened  eight new accounts in the previous 3 months.  This 
plus the fact that the loan was going  to be for an extended period  12 months  then some 
additional checks of the details Mrs M gave MYJAR would have been appropriate and 
proportionate to a first loan for such a high principal sum - £925.  
With a declared income of £1,200  and MYJARs  knowledge of her employment plus her 
declared outgoings of about  £160 a month for a family of five then I think that some 
additional checking would have been justified when cross-referenced  with the credit  bureau 
results. This would include  in my view Mrs Ms income, outgoings, regular loan commitments 
and other  short term loan (STL) debts she may have had.
From information I have from Mrs M, including her bank statements and her personal  credit 
file, I can see that she had other short  term loans outstanding at the time. When Mrs M 
applied for Loan  1 she had several  open  STL accounts with three  other lenders and the day 
after Loan  1 was credited  to her bank  account  she had to pay back about  £700 to three 
other lenders for 6 other STLs. Added to which I can see she had regular loans to repay plus 
the usual household bills and expenses. 
For Loan 2 I note that Mrs M had declared her income to be £2,500  a month  and ought  to 
have prompted  additional enquiries as this was more than double her previous declaration. It 
may have  been  overtime but to earn that much  in overtime does suggest  a degree of 
overstretching herself.  If it was a one off month  of additional income then that ought  not to 
have been the appropriate  income  level to use when  assessing her for a loan of such  a high 
principal sum (£1,500) to be repaid  over an extended period. 
For Loan 2 the credit  bureau search  result that MYJAR has provided  shows that on 
8 July 2017 Mrs Ms unsecured debt figure had increased to just under  £7,000.  This was a 
huge increase  from December  2016.  A full review of her financial situation including 
verification of income, outgoings, outstanding loans and other short  term debt ought to have  
been carried out. 
I have looked  to see what MYJAR  would have seen had it done  that, and it was a similar 
pattern to before. It would have  been  clear to MYJAR that Mrs Ms outgoings  and debts 
exceeded her regular income.  Added to which I think  that its likely that Mrs M was 
restructuring her debt as I can see that she repaid Loan 1 early and from other information 
I have I can see that she repaid and closed two other debts with a different STL lender 
totalling over £1,000.  And evidence or borrowing to repay other  borrowings is a sign of 
unsustainable debt.  
Ref: DRN96934454In the circumstances I agree with our adjudicator and I uphold  Mrs Ms complaint as I can 
see that she was having difficulty managing her finances from the beginning of the lending 
relationship with MYJAR.  And as such, none of the first three loans ought to have been 
approved for her. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mrs M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I think  that this point was reached  by 
Loan 4 and I say this because by the time that Mrs M applied  for Loan 4 it had been about  
18 months of virtually continuous  lending with long loan lengths.  And Loan  4 was due to be a 
long loan for 24 months further extending  her indebtedness.  
So I think that MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs M was having 
to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loans  were  leaving in her finances 
and that Mrs Ms indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mrs M lost out because MYJAR  continued to provide  credit when it approved  
Loan 4 because it would have prolonged her indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive  
credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about Loan 4 as well, and MYJAR should put things 
right in relation  to all of them.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on Loans 1 to 4 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement ;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 1 to 3 from Mrs Ms credit 
file, and in relation  to Loan  4 delete reference to it completely.
MYJAR is entitled to set off any monies arising  from the redress  against any monies Mrs M 
may owe it, but to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal sum borrowed. Any 
unpaid charges and interest would need  to be removed first and any payments made to 
Loan 4 treated as if Mrs M had paid down  the principal.
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined  above, MYJAR 
will need  to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off and the 
full amount due will be repayable to Mrs M directly. And in those circumstances the third 
party will need to be directed by MYJAR to correct any adverse entries on Mrs M s credit 
file, so far as it is able to do so.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. Any tax is to be 
removed before set-off.
Ref: DRN96934455my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint. MYJAR Limited should pay 
Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9693445