K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in Mr and Mrs Gs joint names in 1992,  
probably in a meeting in a branch, when they took a further advance  to add to their existing 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was been passed to me. I reached a different view to 
that of the adjudicator. So I sent out a provisional decision setting out why I thought the 
complaint should  be upheld.  This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current  view is that this complaint should be upheld. This is because I dont think  
Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G clear enough  information about the policy. The actual 
documents from the sale are no longer available, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago this all happened. But the policy at the time included a 90 day waiting 
period. This meant that no claim could be made  until either Mr G or Mrs G had been 
off work sick or unemployed  for 90 consecutive days. And then, if they could make a 
claim, it would be backdated  only to day 61. 
Mr and Mrs G say the policy terms werent  properly explained to them.  And I have no 
evidence to show that this restriction in the policy was set out prominently enough in 
any paperwork they got for Mr and Mrs G to make an informed  decision,  or was 
drawn clearly to their attention in any meeting. If it had been, I think  it unlikely theyd 
have taken the PPI. 
I say this particularly  because Mr and Mrs G have said that their circumstances at the 
time meant they had few if any work benefits or other readily  available  means to fall 
back on. So this meant,  at the period when Mr and Mrs G were most  likely to need 
help, the PPI would have  been no use to them. 
Nationwide has said that, if Mr and Mrs G had been  unable in this situation to meet 
their mortgage payments,  it would  have worked with them by allowing either formal 
or informal payment  concessions to see them through this period. And I accept this 
might well have happened. But I think such an informal arrangement, even if it had 
been suggested at the time of sale, is unlikely to have given Mr and Mrs G enough 
assurance in their circumstances. I think it more  likely theyd have decided the PPI 
wasnt worth  the expense.  
 
So I think Mr and Mrs G have unfairly lost out as a result of the PPI sale. And that 
means I dont need to look at the other issues theyve raised about the sale.
Ref: DRN97909712Mr and Mrs G accepted  my decision, but Nationwide disagreed. They  said in particular:
The Nationwide representative would  have discussed the PPI with Mr and Mrs G and 
it would have been good practice to provide Nationwides  PPI leaflet. 
The mortgage application form also would have advised Mr and Mrs G to read this 
leaflet.  
Mr and Mrs G had a responsibility  to read the leaflet. 
Since the 90-day waiting period is a main  feature  of the policy, Nationwide believe 
this would have  been mentioned by the representative when describing the product. 
It is also mentioned within the MPC [PPI] leaflet which would have been given to 
[Mr and Mrs G] during  the interview.
The PPI leaflet:
consisted of a single sheet of paper, with four columns of text on each side. It 
was folded concertina  style and was easy to navigate on account  of the 
generous sized  text and the fact that the information was split into sections 
headed by a question in bold text.
The leaflet draws  attention to the 90 day period twice: 
Within the section entitled How does it work?  it states If youre away  from 
work for more than 90 consecutive days because of illness,  accident  or 
unemployment, then Mortgage Payment Cover  pays your chosen amount of 
benefit directly into your mortgage  account or direct to you. The first payment 
will be in respect of the period from the 61st to the 90th day. Under  the 
section entitled  Are there any exclusions? it states Yes,  like any insurance 
cover, there are some  occasions when we cannot  provide Mortgage Payment 
Cover. The main ones are:
Any period  of disablement or unemployment  which does not exceed 
90-ofays.
The exclusion is also listed in the longer policy document Mr and Mrs G would have 
received. 
The claim that Mr and Mrs G would have  suffered hardship in the 90 day period is 
contradicted by their statement to the ombudsman service that stated: Furthermore, 
we do not feel that we would have struggled  to keep our payments up to date  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the points Nationwide has made. But I have no evidence  that the adviser did 
draw this significant exclusion to Mr and Mrs Gs attention, or that they were given the leaflet 
Ref: DRN97909713in question. I also do not regard the wording of the leaflet to be as clear  as it could have 
been. It does not clearly  say you will receive  no benefit for the first three months  of your 
unemployment or sickness, and instead  refers to the first payment covering the final month 
of the first 90 day period of your absence from work.  Many  people would find that confusing. 
There is no clear  explanation of what happens about  the first two months. 
I also dont regard the wording Any period of disablement or unemployment which does not 
exceed 90-days  as being straightforward English. 
Nationwide have pointed  to a statement made by Mr and Mrs G about their belief they could 
have met their mortgage payments.  But this was made about 25 years  after the event. I think 
the reality of their actual  limited cover from employer  benefits (such  as they existed) would 
have been higher in their minds at the time of sale. 
So I confirm  my reasoning  given  in my provisional  decision quoted  above.  
what the business should  do to put things right
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  Building 
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I am upholding this complaint. I require  Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr and Mrs G compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9790971