K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2003 and 2010. Ms H and Mr F say Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
background
Ms H and Mr F took out a mortgage and a PPI policy in 2003. Following a six month free 
period, they paid a monthly amount for the PPI. If either of them had made a successful claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  the policy would have paid 50% of the total 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
In 2010 Ms H and Mr F moved house.  At this point they took out a new mortgage. The 2003 
PPI policy  was cancelled  and separate PPI policies were taken out each for Ms H and Mr F, 
with different benefit amounts and different monthly  premiums. As before, the policies 
provided cover should either of them be unable to work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment and would  have paid out the relevant monthly benefit applicable for up to 12 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Ms H and Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms H and Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policies  were optional and Ms H and Mr F had to agree 
to take the cover out. Ms H and Mr F say they didnt remember  taking  out the cover and that 
they only wanted a mortgage.
In relation to the policy sold in 2003, Ive been given a copy  of the mortgage application and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a brief description  of the cover and 
two options to tick; one asking  for more information  on the product and another  stating that 
the applicant would  be making  their own arrangements. On Ms H and Mr Fs form I can see 
that the box asking for more information  has been  ticked. If they didnt want to take out this 
type of cover  there was an option  to refuse.  
In addition to this, Ive been provided  with the mortgage offer that was sent to Ms H and Mr F 
following their application and I can see that this refers  to them  choosing  to take out the PPI 
and asks for the separate  PPI form to be completed. If Ms H and Mr F hadnt  agreed to take 
out the PPI I think they would have questioned this when reading  their mortgage offer. And 
Ive also seen the separate PPI form where both Ms H and Mr F are detailed  as the 
applicants. This form includes tick boxes to select the level of cover required and areas to 
complete the amount of benefit that was needed.  I can see that the accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover  has been selected and the monthly  benefit  has been  completed.  As 
Ref: DRN93753682this form is separate  to the actual mortgage application I think  Ms H and Mr F would have 
known that this was a separate product  they were taking out. 
For the PPI policies taken out in 2010, Ive seen a copy of the Statement  of Demands and 
Needs which  was issued  in late 2009. This document refers  to the discussions held with 
Ms H and Mr F and provides details of the recommendations YBS made  to them  about the 
PPI. So I think its likely  Ms H and Mr F would have had a conversation  with a representative 
from YBS and it was during this discussion  that they agreed to take out the PPI. 
Ive also seen a copy of this mortgage  offer which was issued to Ms H and Mr F and on this 
document it has a section  entitled Insurance you must take out through  Yorkshire  Building 
Society. Directly underneath this heading it says You are not obliged  to take out any 
insurance through Yorkshire Building  Society . So I think it would have been clear  that they 
didnt have to take out PPI.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told about for these sales, I think  YBS made it 
clear that Ms H and Mr F had a choice and that they agreed to take out the policies, knowing 
they could refuse them  if they didnt want them.
YBS has said that it didnt  recommend  the 2003  policy to Ms H and Mr F. This means it 
didnt have to check that it was right for them but it did have to give them  clear  enough 
information to decide for themselves if this policy was right for them.  
But for the policies taken  out in 2010,  our adjudicator said that advice was given to 
Ms H and Mr F by YBS for the individual policies taken out in 2010.  From  looking at the 
documentation from these  sales I think that is likely to be right. This means  that YBS had to 
check that the policies were  right for them  and, based on what  Ive seen, I think  that they 
were. I say this because both Ms H and Mr F were eligible for the cover and it doesnt 
appear that they would  have been affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions 
under the policy  such as having unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition of 
which they were already  aware.
And it looks as though  the PPI could  have been  useful for them. From what  we have been 
told, both Ms H and Mr F would have received six months full pay followed by six months  
half pay from their employers  if they were too ill to work. But these policies would have paid 
out for up to 12 months which would be in addition  to, and potentially for longer than, their 
full pay. And whilst Ive noted they have  told us they had some savings they could have  
used, by having these policies it meant that they could protect their savings for another use 
or put them towards the cost of other  living expenses. As a mortgage is a large  financial 
commitment secured against  the home, I think by having these types of policies it could have 
given them reassurance  if something was to go wrong.
It is possible that not all the information  YBS gave Ms H and Mr F about the PPI was as clear  
as it should have been. But I think they chose to take out the policies  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like this cover would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. And it looks as though it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI policies would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H and Mr F.
But YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H and Mr F for the 2003 policy 
because:
Ref: DRN93753683YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H and Mr F about that. Because  YBS didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Ms H and Mr F any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium from the 2003 policy. YBS should  also pay back to 
Ms H and Mr F any extra interest they paid because of that.
YBS should pay back to Ms H and Mr F the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also 
pay Ms H and Mr F 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Ms H and Mr F can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ive thought about whether YBS needs to give Ms H and Mr F some of the commission  they 
paid back on the PPI policies that started  with their mortgage in 2010. The Supreme  Court 
ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain  types of mortgage agreement  including 
a regulated mortgage. As Ms H and Mr Fs 2010 mortgage was a regulated  mortgage  they 
dont apply. So YBS doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Ms H and Mr F paid for 
the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ive also thought about what  Mr F has said about not claiming  on the policy  when he was 
made redundant in 2013 as he says he didnt know that he had the cover. But as Ive already 
mentioned, I think its more likely that they did agree to take out the cover  in both 2003 and 
2010. From  the information we have been  given, it appears that the PPI policies  taken out in 
2010 were cancelled in the first few months of 2013  and so it may be that the cover wasnt in 
force at the time of Mr F losing his job. So this doesnt alter my decision. But if Mr F thinks 
that he would have been able to claim,  he should  contact the underwriters of the policy to 
see if they will accept a backdated claim.
Ref: DRN93753684my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H and Mr F.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Ms H and Mr F any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  on the policy taken  out in 
2003. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9375368