K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs unhappy that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC recorded a default on his credit file.
background
Mr Rs loan fell into arrears. In January 2018  he made an informal payment arrangement  
with Barclays but some payments after that werent made. Mr R says he was told to ignore  
letters and he ignored a demand letter sent in June 2018. About two months later a default  
notice was issued  in August 2018. Mr R complained to Barclays and a new term extension 
plan was agreed and he was given  £100  compensation.  Mr R agreed to make four monthly 
payments with the first one due on 24 September  2018. Unfortunately  Mr R missed this first 
payment and Barclays defaulted  the loan. 
Mr Rs unhappy about this and that the debt has been passed to debt collectors.  He wants  
the default removed.
 
Barclays said in its final response that a term extension  for Mr Rs loan was agreed in 
August 2018.  This meant that if Mr R paid four consecutive payments successfully it could 
move his arrears to the end of the loan ultimately  extending  it for the length  of time required 
to clear the arrears. It told him the first payment would be taken from his account on 24 
September 2018 which he agreed to. It attempted  to take this payment but this was 
unsuccessful due to insufficient finds.  Although  the payment on 24 October 2018 was made 
successfully Mr Rs account had by then already been closed to recoveries  on 26 September  
2018 as his first payment was missed  which caused  his plan to fail. Barclays  hasnt done 
anything wrong.
Our Investigator  felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Barclays agreed a repayment  plan with Mr R. But unfortunately the first payment 
didnt go through  in time. 
The default notice  sent by Barclays in August  2018 made clear that if Mr R didnt 
make the agreed first payment the bank would  terminate  the agreement  and demand 
immediate payment. This and a letter sent in September  gave  enough information for 
him to understand what would happen  if the first payment wasnt  made by 24 
September 2018.
Barclays followed its protocol and has a duty to record accurate information on a 
customers credit file. It has acted reasonably defaulting the credit file and passing  
the debt to debt collectors. 
Mr R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says he doesnt 
understand how Barclays tried to take the September  payment when there  was nothing in 
his account but the October payment went through.
The investigator pointed  out to Mr R that Barclays didnt take the October  payment as his 
account had moved  over by then. And he made  that payment through the faster payment 
service. 
Ref: DRN90368282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr R entered into a term extension for his loan in August 2018.  He agreed to make  four 
monthly payments,  the first of which was due on or before 24 September 2018. 
Barclays had told Mr R in the default notice what would happen if the first agreed payment 
wasnt made and its letter  in September 2018 said it would record  information about his 
account on his credit record.
Its unfortunate that Mr R didnt receive some  money he was expecting and as a result this 
first payment  request by Barclays wasnt successful.  But theres  nothing  to show he asked 
for the payment to be made later or contacted Barclays at that time.
Consequently I think Barclays acted reasonably by defaulting his account, closing it and 
taking steps to recover what was owed.
I recognise Mr Rs frustration. But I think  Barclays has treated him fairly by agreeing  to the 
repayment arrangement  and by defaulting the account when the agreed payment wasnt 
made. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require Barclays  to remove the default  from 
his credit file or stop or change its recovery actions.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9036828