K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the reviewable Whole  of Life (WOL)  plan administered  by 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance  Limited (OMW).  In particular they complain:
They understood that the plan would pay out around £500,000 when they died if they 
paid the premium of £400 each month.
They were unaware there  would  be premium increases.
Their adviser and OMW mis-sold  the plan.
The delay in sending  them the closure form has put them at risk of paying a further 
mortality charge.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs G were advised  by another business to take out a joint life, second 
death reviewable unit-linked WOL plan to help mitigate their potential Inheritance Tax (IHT)  
liability. The plan provided £499,000  of cover for a premium of £400.  It included an inflation  
option which Mr and Mrs G exercised in 2015   increasing the sum assured to £548,900 and 
the premium to £440. 
As a result of the review  in 2018 - which indicated  the premium  needed to increase 
significantly to £1,625 or the sum assured reduce  to £275,532 - Mr and Mrs G surrendered  
the plan and got back around £40,266 as against  around £76,000  paid in premiums.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to both OMW and the business that had advised them to take out 
the plan. As OMW didnt  sell the plan to Mr and Mrs G the complaint about  the plan being  
mis-sold is the subject  of a separate complaint against the adviser firm which I have already 
considered.
OMW didnt uphold the complaint about its administration  of the plan.  In short  it said that life 
cover rates had never been  guaranteed under the plan and that it was entitled to review  the 
rates and change  them  as the terms and conditions make clear. It also confirmed that the 
sale of Mr and Mrs Gs funds on surrender had taken place before its new mortality charges 
were applied on 15 November 2018 so the amount they received hadnt been affected  by 
the charge. Mr and Mrs G then referred  their complaint to us.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and in short said the following:
OMW  has administered the plan in accordance with the terms and conditions  and 
has informed Mr and Mrs G when a change  to the premium or sum assured was 
necessary as a result  of a review.
OMW  carried  out the surrender of the plan correctly and Mr and Mrs G received what 
they were entitled to.
For the time the plan was held Mr and Mrs Gs family wouldve received a significant 
benefit if they had died.
A further  mortality charge wasnt incurred by Mr and Mrs G because  of any delay  on 
the part of OMW in surrendering the plan.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigator, so the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
Ref: DRN90473822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs G have complained. Having taken out the WOL plan to provide  
a lump sum to help mitigate their potential IHT liability they have found themselves having to 
surrender the plan because the cost of maintaining it has become too expensive for them 
and they now no longer  have the cover  they wanted.  
But in order to uphold  their complaint I would have to be satisfied that OMW had done  
something wrong in administering the plan. And having considered the evidence Im not 
persuaded that it has, for reasons I will explain.
The plan is a reviewable WOL plan with the sum assured guaranteed  for the first 10 years of 
the plan after which it is reviewed each year to see if it can last for another five years.  If it 
cant then the customer is given the option  of increasing the premium to keep  the cover  the 
same, or reducing the sum assured with the premium to remain the same.
The plan terms under the heading Policy Review states that:
If in the opinion if the Actuary to the Company at any Review, the performance of units  to 
which the Policy is linked is insufficient to sustain the Sum Assured and other benefits the 
Company will reduce the Sum Assured and other benefits provided that the Sum Assured 
after the reduction shall not less than 75% of the premiums payable  under the policy from 
commencement to age 75 of the Life Assured.
Mr and Mrs G were made also made  aware that the plan would be reviewed regularly every 
year by the adviser  who sold the plan to them who explained this in the suitability  letter sent 
to Mr and Mrs G in 2002  - which stated that it was almost guaranteed the premium would 
need to increase in the future to maintain the level of cover.  
So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were made aware that the plan was reviewable, and that 
on review the premium might need  to increase or the sum assured reduce. 
OMW has reviewed the plan annually but Mr and Mrs G didnt need to increase  the premium  
or reduce the sum assured as a result of those reviews until 2017   although they did 
increase the sum assured (and the premium) in 2015 under the inflation option  in the plan.
In the review letter sent to Mr and Mrs G in September 2017 they were told the options were 
to; increase the premiums to £688; reduce the sum assured to £461,260; leave the premium  
and sum assured unchanged which was projected  to last another  four years; make some  
other change which  it would provide an illustration for.
Mr and Mrs G didnt make any changes to the premium or sum assured in 2017 but they did 
raise a complaint  with OMW at the time which it responded  to.
The review  that was carried out in 2018 indicated a significant increase to the premium or 
reduction to the sum assured was needed if they wanted the plan to continue for a further  
five years - keeping the premium and sum assured the same was only projected to be 
possible for two more years. This led Mr and Mrs G to surrender the plan.
Ref: DRN90473823I know Mr and Mrs G will feel they have paid a lot of money for a plan they feel wasnt worth  
it. But it has provided life cover to them for a period of 16 years  and if they had both had died 
in that period it wouldve  paid out a significant  amount to their children which couldve been 
used to pay the potential IHT liability. 
I acknowledge that they have surrendered the plan. But this is because  they didnt  want to 
pay the increased premium necessary to keep  the same sum assured. But OMW have done 
nothing wrong  in reviewing the plan and determining that either the premium  would need to 
increase significantly  or the sum assured  reduced.
I note they have suggested  that the amount  they got back on surrender was a shocking 
devaluation of their finances. But the plan wasnt an investment  which was meant to provide 
a return. The cost of life cover increases as people age  not just for this plan but generally.  
And the purpose  of building up a fund value is so that the fund can be used to help pay 
those costs when  the premium by itself is no longer sufficient to do so. So it isnt surprising 
they got back less than they had paid into the plan and this isnt evidence that OMW  did 
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs G were also concerned that they were subject to a further mortality charge 
before the surrender value was calculated because of a delay in sending the closure form. 
But OMW has confirmed the surrender value was calculated before the new mortality  charge 
was applied so I think they got what they were  entitled to on surrender.
In summary  I have not seen any evidence that would  lead me to find that OMW hasnt 
administered the plan as it shouldve done or has done anything else wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9047382