K821x#15complaint 
Mr M has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget  Agria (publ)  (Agria) has unfairly 
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy forcing  him to cancel it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr M took out, will continue  to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal. 
Agria should have  made these longer-term  cost implications clear  to Mr M. Our investigator 
thought Agria  should pay Mr M £300  compensation as it hadnt made this clear.  And Agria  
accepted her assessment. I think £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M has told us hes not happy  with the compensation  amount  as, having cancelled  the 
policy no other insurer will cover his pets pre-existing  conditions.  Mr M would like Agria to 
cover any future claims relating to his pets pre-existing conditions.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Ms policy was too high, he should have been charged less for the 
policy or that he should be charged less for cover in the future.
While Mr Ms premium did see a significant  increase, I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
Agria treated him differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  in the same 
position. 
I understand this situation has caused  Mr M a significant amount  of distress as, due to the 
medical conditions  his pet now has, he cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. He will now 
have to fund any treatment his pet needs for pre-existing conditions  himself.
But the thing Agria did wrong was not give Mr M the information he needed  to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Mr M hadnt  taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover  at all, and would have 
had to pay for all his pets treatment himself,  or a reduced level of cover,  where he would still 
have found himself in a situation where his pets conditions  were no longer covered.
Ref: DRN93065632I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr M having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed  or capped  premium  this 
type of policy typically  didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put him in this position and 
say that Agria should  pay for Mr Ms pets ongoing  treatment. 
The compensation Agria has agreed to pay recognises that better  information  about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have  avoided some of the upset  and distress  Mr M has 
experienced. I think it fairly compensates  Mr M for the trouble and upset  hes been caused.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I require Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) to pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble 
and upset it has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306563