K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr L payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 to cover  a 
mortgage. The amount of PPI cover increased to match further advances taken later. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and many of the original documents from the 
time are not now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened over 21 years ago when the sale took place.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned  in the documents at the time, and 
that it would  have been presented as a choice. And I dont have  strong evidence  to show 
that Lloyds Bank didnt make clear the PPI was on offer and was optional; or that it didnt 
ensure that Mr L freely chose to take it. Without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to say that Lloyds Bank acted wrongly in that way.
Lloyds Bank probably recommended  the PPI to Mr L, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr L received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when he would  need  to fall back on any savings or other means  
they may have  had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mr L in a more 
secure position, if he eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr L took the PPI.
Ref: DRN98968842Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr L would have  been  affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896884