K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wrongly  debited  £90 from his account when 
an ATM  failed  to dispense his cash, and took too long to deal with his complaint.
background
On 3 May 2018  Mr B tried to withdraw  £90 from his Nationwide account at an automated 
teller machine (ATM)  belonging to a third party. He says he never  received the cash, but the 
money was still debited from his account. He complained, and he says that Nationwide told 
him it would have an answer for him by 19 May, but his complaint still wasnt  resolved until a 
few days after that.
Nationwide says that when it counted the cash in the ATM it found the amount was what it 
expected  that is, there was no discrepancy  of £90 (or of any other  amount). The 
transaction had been reported in the normal way on the ATM journal, with no errors. So it did 
not agree  that the £90 had not been dispensed. It said that it had not told Mr B that his 
complaint would be dealt with by the 19th, but within 19 days  (not counting bank holidays). 
However Nationwide agreed that it had not replied to him within this timescale either,  and so 
it said it would pay him £50 for the delay. Mr B says he has never received that £50 either. 
He brought this complaint  to our Service, and suggested that Nationwide  should  obtain 
CCTV footage  showing  his attempted withdrawal.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted Nationwides evidence, and she 
also contacted  the ATM owner, which confirmed that it had found  no surplus money in the 
ATM. The third party had not provided Nationwide with CCTV footage, and had not agreed 
to provide it to her. So she said she was unable  to find that Nationwide  should  pay Mr B £90. 
She listened to the call recordings  of Mr Bs phone calls with Nationwide,  and she did not 
hear anyone  tell him that his complaint would be resolved  by 19 May. Instead,  one call 
handler had told him that it would take 19 days not counting bank holidays,  and later another  
call handler had told him it would take 19 working days  (which  is not quite the same thing). 
She agreed  that Mr B had been  told conflicting  information, but Nationwide had paid him £50 
compensation and had apologised  for the delay, and she thought that was fair.
Mr B did not accept that decision, and he asked  for an ombudsman to review this complaint. 
He said that Nationwides offer to pay him £50 amounted to an admission that it had lied to 
him, and so it could  also be lying about the ATM  too.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have reviewed the evidence provided by Nationwide, and I agree that it does  not suggest 
that the £90 was not dispended. The cash physically found in the machine and counted 
added up to the same amount that was put in the machine  in the first place minus  what  its 
records say it dispensed. I am not able to compel  the third party  to provide its CCTV footage.  
So I am not able to safely conclude that Mr B did not receive his money.
Ref: DRN960323827 May 2018  was a bank holiday.  Counting from 3 May (when  Mr B used the ATM)  to 24 May 
(when Nationwide declined to refund him), but not counting 7 May, is 20 days, so I accept 
that Nationwide responded one day late. However I think that Nationwides apology and £50 
payment are fair compensation for that, and I will not require it to do more.
I have seen Mr Bs account statement for May and June, and there is a credit of £50 dated 
15 June and labelled sundries. I accept that this is Nationwides compensation payment, so 
Mr B has been paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9603238