K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 1997 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France  IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing  
else has changed. 
AXA France  IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility  for this sale.  So, to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when  Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA.  
Ms W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
Ms W says AXA mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms W took out in 1997. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in person.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint because I dont think  AXA gave Ms W clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because Ms W had a condition which wouldnt have  
been covered.  So, she couldnt  have claimed  on the policy for everything she expected to be 
able to. I dont  think  Ms W wouldve bought  the policy if AXA had given her enough 
information about it. So, I think Ms W has lost out because of what  AXA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account AXAs comments,  including  what it said in questioning whether the 
condition was an issue for Ms W at the time of the sale. But I still think I should  uphold the 
complaint. Ms W told us her condition was a present issue  for her at the time, requiring 
medical checks and medication.  Ms W also told us the condition had caused her to take time 
off work in the past. The condition in the policy had the potential to cause further periods of 
time off work in the future. So, I still think it wouldve been important to Ms W that the 
conditions were covered.  
putting things right
AXA should  put Ms W in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.AXA should find out how much Ms W would have owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN96393972AXA should  then refund the difference between what Ms W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what  Ms W would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when AXA works out what Ms W would have owed each month  without PPI  Ms W 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, AXA should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Ms W paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest  until the point  when Ms W 
wouldve owed  AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.  
D.AXA should tell Ms W what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give Ms 
W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
AXA France  IARD should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9639397