K820x#14Complaint
Miss C complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED made an error on her credit  file which  caused  her 
mortgage offer to be reduced.
Background
In late 2018 Miss C applied for a mortgage to buy out her ex-partner. She wanted to borrow 
£58,000, but was offered £50,000.  Miss C discovered her Equifax credit report  contained details 
of her mothers finances which she believes caused the lender to offer her less than she sought. 
Miss Cs mother  has the same name and they had previously lived at the same address.
Equifax apologised for the error and rectified  matters. It also offered Miss C £150  in 
compensation, but she refused this and brought her complaint  to this service. She 
explained that her ex-partner had withdrawn  from their agreement and she was now being 
harassed by his family.
Her complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She noted  the financial data shown on the credit  report for Miss Cs mother  was 
positive and was unlikely to have had a negative impact on any loan application made by 
Miss C. She also said that Equifax rectified the problem and removed  the search made by 
the lender from Miss Cs file to allow her to make another application.
She accepted that the error had inconvenienced  Miss C, but it was open  to her to make a 
further application. However, Miss C hadnt  done  so and our investigator couldnt  say she 
would have obtained the credit she wanted,  given she had £20,000  in other borrowing and 
the latest update showed  her credit card usage  percentage was 81% which  was high.
Our investigator said she couldnt  be certain that Equifax's error was the reason Miss C was 
facing problems with her ex-partner and his family. Miss C didnt agree and said that if the 
credit file had been correct she would have known earlier if her application would have been 
declined and she was now left in limbo.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss C and the situation in which she now finds herself with regard  
to her ex-partner and his family. However, to uphold  her complaint I have to be satisfied that 
the error  made  by Equifax was the cause of the potential  lender offering her a reduced  sum. 
I appreciate the lower  loan offer has delayed matters and allowed the ex-partner and family to 
reconsider the situation and to withdraw from what had been  previously agreed.
I can see that Mrs Cs financial  information  as recorded on Miss Cs credit report  is positive  
and would appear to have  enhanced her daughters credit rating.  As such  it is hard to see 
how the error was the cause of the reduced offer. Equifax  rectified the error as soon as it 
was brought to its attention and removed the credit  search. This allowed Miss C to make a 
further application. If she had done so and had been  given  the loan she sought then I might 
be persuaded that the error was the cause  of the original low offer.
Ref: DRN91098782Though I cannot  say for certain, it seems more likely  that Miss Cs own borrowing was the 
cause of the lower  offer. So it is reasonable to conclude that had the credit file been accurate  
Miss C would still have encountered a problem  in obtaining the finance she was seeking.  As 
such I cannot conclude  that the subsequent  issues she has faced are connected  with 
Equifaxs mistake.
It is only fair that Equifax compensate Miss C for its error, but I dont think it need  pay more  
that the £150 it has already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I leave it to Miss C to decide if she 
wishes to accept the offer made  by EQUIFAX LIMITED. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9109878