K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the fees Lepus Marketing Limited, trading as The PPI Team, are 
charging him on a mis-sold PPI claim.
background
Mr P made a mis-selling  claim against  PPI provider B, which was successful. In April 2018  
he instructed Lepus to make further  mis-selling claims against PPI provider B. These were  
also successful and Lepus invoiced Mr P for their fees. Mr P has paid half of the fees.
Mr P has complained that Lepus shouldnt be charging a fee as PPI provider B shouldve 
paid all of his compensation when  he contacted  them  directly.  Hes also complained that 
Lepus are charging  a fee on the amount  of compensation  he was awarded  before tax, not 
the amount he received; and that theyve breached his data protection  by calling  him from a 
mobile to chase for payment.  
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that Lepus  had acted reasonably - Mr P had instructed them  to make 
a claim and theyd charged  their fee in line with the terms and conditions  hed agreed to. He 
didnt find anything to show  that Lepus  had agreed to just accept  half of their fee, or that they 
called Mr P from a mobile to ask him for payment. For these reasons he felt Lepus were 
entitled to their fee and entitled to chase for it.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator, making  the following  points:
Lepuss complaint  handling was poor as they sent him threatening emails.
He would never have agreed to a fee of 39% plus VAT.
The invoice stressed the fee was based  on the gross payment, which  indicates  
Lepus have had problems with this before.
Lepus phoned him and offered to accept just half of their fee.
His data protection  has been breached by someone contacting him on a mobile 
phone, asking him for payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Lepus sent Mr P an Initial Pack in April 2018, which contained  their terms and 
conditions and letters of authority. Mr P signed  and returned  the letters of authority, asking 
Lepus to make claims against PPI provider B. I understand Mr P is unhappy that PPI 
provider B didnt deal with all of his claims when he contacted them directly, but I feel this is 
a complaint about PPI provider B. I cant say that Lepus did anything wrong by dealing with 
the claims Mr P asked them to.
Ref: DRN99097082Ive seen the terms and conditions  Mr P agreed  to by instructing Lepus. These say their fee 
is 39% plus VAT of the full offer amount  (including  all taxes  where applicable). These  go on 
to give examples of how the fee is calculated,  and the examples show the fee is calculated  
on the compensation awarded before any tax is deducted. Im satisfied that this was 
reasonable, and I dont  feel that Lepus highlighting how the fee was calculated on the 
invoice means that the fee information wasnt clear. Because of this I agree that Lepus are 
entitled to charge their fee of 39% plus VAT of the amount before tax.
Lepus charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where  a claim was successful, Lepus s fee may be more  or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because Lepus s fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr P doesnt 
make their fee unjustified.  Because of this I wont be asking them  to reduce their fee.
Mr P disputed Lepuss fees, and only paid half of these under protest. Because of this I can 
see that he would find any attempts to collect the fees unwanted and unacceptable.  But 
Lepus were entitled  to charge their fees,  and were also entitled to attempt to collect  them.
In their letters Lepus told Mr P what actions  they would take to legally recover  their fees if 
they remained unpaid.  These are factual statements and, although Mr P may not have  
wished to be advised of this, it doesnt make them threatening. Ive not seen anything to 
indicate that Lepus agreed to accept  half of their fee, so I cant  say they should stop chasing 
Mr P for the outstanding  amount.
I understand Mr Ps concerns about his personal  data,  and that he feels it may have been  
misused. Lepus say that dont make calls from mobile phones  and I havent  seen anything to 
say that they do. Mr P has also said that the caller  didnt  identify themselves as being from 
Lepus. Because of this, I cant say that this call was from Lepus. Ive seen  that Mr P has 
contacted Action Fraud about this call, and the investigator gave him the contact details for 
the Information Commissioners  Office  the people who deal with complaints about  misuse 
of personal data. I have  nothing  to add to this advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909708