K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ps credit  card account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
There arent many records from the time of the sale, which  is understandable given how long 
ago this was. I wouldnt  expect either Mr P or the bank to keep records  indefinitely. Lloyds 
has sent us a sample of the sort of application form it used at the time. I cant see any 
reason why Mr P would be treated differently  from any other customer, so I think it most 
likely he completed a form like the sample. Ive relied on this and what we know  about how 
Lloyds sold these policies  at the time when reaching  my decision.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he can no longer remember  this.
 Lloyds doesnt  know if it recommended  the PPI to Mr P, but even if it did it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
I appreciate Mr P thinks he might  not have been able to claim because he had good 
work related  benefits, but the PPI would have paid out in addition  to these.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr P chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr P would have made a different  decision  if better  information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN93462542my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346254