K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a hire purchase  agreement in 1996.  
Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.  
I think Mrs Rs PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
It doesnt look like FICL  recommended the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check  it was 
right for her. But it did have to give Mrs R information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and 
not misleading  so she could decide  for herself  whether  it was right for her.
From what  we know about this type of PPI policy, it would have excluded claims resulting 
from a pre-existing medication  condition. And Mrs R had a condition which wouldnt have 
been covered.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs R. Her condition was a potentially  serious  one, which 
was likely to have affected her day-to-day  life and was a long-term  issue. It couldve lead to 
a number of complications, some  very severe. And this policy normally  wouldve excluded  
any claims that resulted  from her condition  which potentially cast quite a wide net of things  
she couldnt claim for.
So it looks  like Mrs R couldnt have claimed  on the PPI for everything  she mightve expected 
to be able to. But I cant see that Mrs R was given any information about the policys 
exclusions at the time of the sale.
Further, from what Mrs R has told us, she didnt work many hours in her job at the time of 
the sale. And given  what we know  about  this type of PPI policy,  its likely that this meant she 
wasnt able to claim on it  and may not have even  been eligible  for cover in the first place.
So based  on the evidence I have, I think its most likely that this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN91611572putting things right
FICL should put Mrs R in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Mrs R back the amount she paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs R has already received a 
refund for the commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off of the 
amount it owes her, so that it does not refund the same  amount twice.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs R a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161157