K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let mortgage Mr K had with Fleet  Mortgages  Ltd. Mr K is 
unhappy that Fleet only reminded him that his preferential rate was coming to an end a 
month before it happened,  and that it then withdrew  all its products so he had to remortgage 
elsewhere to get a new preferential rate. Mr K says this led to him being on Fleets higher 
variable rate for a couple of months  whilst the remortgage went through.
background
In 2017 Mr K took a mortgage with Fleet. The interest rate was fixed  until 31 January  2019, 
after which it then reverted to a variable rate. When accepting the mortgage Mr K signed a 
declaration to confirm  he understood Fleet didnt carry  out product switches. This meant  at 
the end of any preferential rate period Fleet customers  always  had to remortgage  (whether 
that be internally with Fleet onto a new rate, or to move their mortgage to a different lender) 
if they didnt want  to go onto the reversionary variable rate.
Fleet wrote to Mr K on 30 December 2018 to remind him that his preferential  rate would be 
ending on 31 January 2019 and setting out what the new payment would be. 
Unfortunately, by 7 January 2019  Fleet had filled its existing  tranche of funding a lot quicker 
than anticipated,  so it had to withdraw all its products until it had arranged a new funding 
line. I understand from Mr Ks broker that hed not submitted a remortgage application at that 
stage, and he was made  aware the same  day the products  were  withdrawn that a 
remortgage would not be possible until new funding had been secured.
Mr K remortgaged to a different  lender  and the last update we had on that was in early  
March 2019 when Mr K told us it was due to complete any day. Hes unhappy this meant he 
had to make  two payments at Fleets  higher  reversionary variable rate. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Fleet  had done anything wrong. He was satisfied Fleet  wrote  to 
Mr K about  the preferential mortgage  rate ending, and that the withdrawal of all its products 
was outside of its control. Mr K didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be decided by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said he received the letter, but he thinks he should have been given more  notice. 
He says many mortgage lenders give three months  notice of the end of a preferential rate, 
rather than just a month.  Whilst Ive carefully considered this argument I must keep in mind 
that this was a business mortgage  - that is, it was a buy-to-let  property  - rather than an 
individual customers residential mortgage,  hence  not subject to regulation.  Theres  simply 
no requirement for a lender to send out a reminder  three months before a preferential  rate is 
due to end, and so it would be highly  unfair  for me to say Fleet did anything wrong here.  I 
simply cant hold Fleet up to standard that it had no regulatory requirement to meet.
The original  mortgage  offer set out the terms of the contract; that is, the fixed  rate would  run 
until 31 January 2019  and then itd move to a reversionary variable rate. The onus is on the 
customer to know what mortgage product they have, at what  rate and when that ends. The 
Ref: DRN97676402letter Fleet sent a month before the rate ended  was simply a reminder, and a notification  of 
what the new monthly payment would be going forward.
Fleet set out the details  of the contract upfront in the mortgage  offer and reminded Mr K a 
month before the preferential rate was due to end. I understand Mr K thinks  Fleet should 
have done more, but it didnt have to.
Fleet lent the money on the product that was applied for. Even  if the products werent all 
withdrawn in January  2019 there  wouldnt have  been any guarantee of a suitable new 
product being  offered to Mr K as that was always subject to a remortgage application and 
what products were available at the time. Mr Ks mortgage continued  running  on the product 
he applied  for in 2017 - which was a fixed rate until 31 January 2019 and a variable  rate 
thereafter - and thats the contract he entered into.
Mr K says he doesnt believe Fleet wasnt aware in advance  that it would have to withdraw 
its entire product  range. Whilst I understand thats  Mr Ks belief, Im satisfied with the 
information provided by Fleet in this regard. I cant speculate on what  Fleet did or didnt 
know and when. Were not Fleets regulator. The regulators  supervisory role allows  it to 
have dialogue  with Fleet and access to information  on a wider scale than I have in this 
decision. I can only look at the information provided  by both sides, and based on that Im 
satisfied Fleet let the mortgage intermediary  market know as soon as it could.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767640