K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that he couldnt log on to his pension account  with Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva) which meant he couldnt trade or manage his pension  as he wished. He says 
Aviva didnt offer any alternative ways of accessing  the account  and hes suffered a financial 
loss by not being able to trade. He wants to be compensated accordingly  and to be allowed 
to transfer his pension elsewhere with no extra penalties or costs.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 10 March  2020 -a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  in part 
and invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they wished to make. I 
said I thought  it was difficult to conclude Mr B had lost out on investment opportunities during 
the time he was unable  to trade,  and therefore  I didnt think  hed suffered any financial loss. 
But I did think that Aviva could have made Mr B more aware of the alternative ways  in which 
he could have traded  before he had to complain for a second time  and thought Aviva 
should pay an additional £150,  on top of the £100 it had already paid him, for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Aviva said it didnt have  anything further to add and accepted the provisional  decision. But 
Mr B didnt agree. He said Aviva should  pay him £1,000 for any loss his investments had 
suffered. He believed that if the value  of his investments fell during a period when he was 
unable to trade that should be considered a loss caused by Aviva. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any new 
additional information for me to consider, I see no reason to change  the conclusions  I came 
to in my provisional decision.
Mr B believes Aviva  should pay him significantly more  compensation in respect of any falls in 
the value of his pension  during the time he couldnt  trade. He says that if hes unable  to trade 
to prevent the falls thats Avivas responsibility. And I understand how strongly Mr B feels 
about that matter.  But as Ive already said there  simply isnt any evidence to show what  
investment opportunities or trades  Mr B would have carried out during that time. In the 
absence of such evidence  it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Aviva  should compensate  
Mr B along  those lines. 
Theres no evidence of Mr B asking Aviva to conduct trades on his behalf and I cant  
conclude Mr B lost out on investment opportunities where theres  no evidence of any activity 
Mr B tried to undertake.
But as I concluded  in my provisional decision,  Aviva  could  have done more to make Mr B 
aware of the alternative methods of trading when he first contacted  it. I think  that caused 
further frustration for Mr B and I think Aviva should  pay an additional  £150  for the trouble and 
upset this caused.   
Ref: DRN98847892my final decision
For the same reasons  that Ive already  given  in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint against  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should  pay Mr B an additional £150 on top of the £100 it 
has already paid him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98847893copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that he couldnt log on to his pension account with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) which meant he couldnt trade or manage his pension as he wished. He says Aviva didnt offer 
any alternative ways  of accessing the account and hes suffered  a financial loss by not being  able to 
trade. He wants to be compensated accordingly and be allowed to transfer his pension  elsewhere 
with no extra penalties or costs.
background
Mr B holds a pension  with Aviva which he manages online. In early  April 2019 Mr B found  he couldnt  
access his account. On 10 April 2019 he contacted Aviva to complain  about  the lack of access. 
Aviva explained that it was aware of an IT issue causing problems with online access, which it hoped  
would be fixed soon although it had no definitive  date.  Mr B said he wanted compensation  for the 
matter and asked for Aviva  to log a complaint on his behalf. He also asked for a plan valuation which  
he was given  over the phone.
As he didnt hear from Aviva   and the problem remained  Mr B contacted  Aviva  a week later. He 
asked why his first complaint hadnt been acted upon and demanded  significant compensation  for 
what he said were losses arising from being unable  to trade.  He asked how it was possible for him to 
make changes to the account and was told that Aviva could take email instructions  from him. He 
asked for relevant fund information to be sent to him so that he could decide what changes to make to 
his plan. A further complaint  was logged.
Online access to Mr Bs account  was restored on 18 April 2019.
In July 2019  Aviva provided a final response to Mr B and apologised  for any distress and 
inconvenience caused  and paid him £100. However, Aviva  said it had been able to offer 
Mr B alternative ways  to access his account and concluded  that he hadnt suffered any financial loss.
Mr B said he didnt think the alternatives  had been acceptable  and felt Aviva had acted unfairly  by 
denying him access to his pension. He wanted greater compensation to cover the losses he said hed 
suffered. As he didnt accept Avivas offer he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint  shouldnt be upheld as he felt 
Aviva had acted fairly.  He said Avivas email to Mr B following his complaint   and its telephone 
conversation with him  demonstrated that it offered  alternative ways  for him to manage his account.  
He thought the £100  Aviva  had paid was a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances.
But Mr B didnt agree  and as no resolution could be found the complaints  been passed to me for a 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can understand Mr Bs frustration at not being  able to access  his 
account online  and Ive heard how strongly he felt about the situation within his conversations with 
Aviva. 
There doesnt  seem to be any dispute here that there was a general problem  accessing  policies 
online, as when Mr B rang to complain about the matter  Aviva said it was already  aware of the 
problem, but didnt know when it might be fixed.   So what I have to consider  here is to what extent 
Mr B suffered  any losses or material distress  and inconvenience and whether  Avivas payment was 
fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN98847894The financial  loss
Mr B says the two weeks  or so that he was unable to access his pension meant that he couldnt  
manage or trade the account during that time  and he lost out on potential investment returns. So I 
have considered whether  he did lose out on the opportunity to invest  during this time.  But theres no 
evidence of any specific trades Mr B wanted  to try to make during that time (and was denied) or that 
he provided  Aviva with specific instructions when  he was offered alternatives whereby Aviva could 
place trades  for him.
Ive seen how strongly  Mr B feels about this matter.  He says its not possible to know  what trading he 
would have done without  access to the account to look at the performance of the various funds within 
his plan. And I dont dispute that he did actively trade on his account outside of this time. But its 
difficult to conclude  that he lost out on investment opportunities when theres  no evidence  of any 
investments that he tried to make at the time. So I dont think  Aviva should have  to compensate Mr B 
for any investment growth he may have had the opportunity to achieve during those two weeks.  
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Aviva has paid Mr B £100  for the distress and inconvenience it says being unable to access  his 
account caused him. So I have carefully  considered the impact this might have  had on him.
When Mr B contacted Aviva he said the inability  to gain online access had been going on for about a 
week. Ive no reason to dispute that time period  and certainly Aviva was already aware of such a 
problem. So when Mr B called Aviva  on 10 April 2019 that was the first opportunity  Aviva had to 
understand how Mr B had been affected. IT issues are a common fact of business these days and 
can happen  to any firm and at any time. I cant blame  Aviva for suffering an IT problem  which caused 
difficulty in accessing customers  accounts, although I do think it should have recognised   on a case  
by case  basis  the impact that may have on a customer. 
And I think it did recognise the impact being unable to manage his pension  had on Mr B, which  is why 
its paid him £100. But what I would have expected Aviva to have done,  when Mr B first contacted it, 
was to acknowledge the issue and try to give some  idea when the problem might  be fixed. 
I also think  it should  then have made Mr B fully aware of how he could  continue  to access his account  
 and trade, using other alternative methods. I would have expected Aviva to have explained these 
alternatives and offered  to provide him with any information he might need during  that first contact. 
But, having listened to that telephone call, I can find no evidence to show that it did explain the other 
options. In fact Aviva said that all it could do was  to log the complaint  and that it couldnt  give an 
update on when the problem would be resolved.  It also suggested that other customers are having  
to wait to look at their policies  
Whilst I accept that Aviva  couldnt confirm when the issue would  be sorted out I think  it did have a 
responsibility to offer Mr B other ways of accessing his plan. To have left him thinking  that he was 
unable to make any alterations to his investment wasnt the response that I think  Mr B was looking for. 
Mr B made it clear during  the call that his main complaint was that he couldnt  change  any of the 
funds or investments within the plan,  so I think it was reasonable for Aviva to have  understood his 
concerns and come  up with a resolution. I think the outcome  of the first call had a greater impact on 
Mr B because when he called Aviva a week later he discovered that his original complaint didnt 
appear to have been  logged and also that there were other ways he could trade on his account  using 
email and telephony.
The manager  that Mr B spoke with on that occasion was able to confirm that he could provide fund 
information by email  that could  enable Mr B to decide if he wanted/needed  to make any changes. 
Fortunately, as the problem was resolved the following day, Mr B didnt need to use those  
alternatives. But Ive borne  in mind that he wasnt made aware of the options for at least  a week 
following his first complaint.
Ref: DRN98847895I think  that Avivas inability  to make Mr B aware  of how he could access his account  added to his 
frustration and caused him to complain a second time. And I can understand his subsequent  concerns  
about using those alternative means when  Aviva finally  made  him aware.  By that time Mr B had lost 
trust in Avivas ability to look after his pension and even suggested he might transfer to another 
provider in the future. So I think  the impact  of Avivas  action was quite significant. I think  it should pay 
Mr B further compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by not making him aware of the 
alternatives when it should have done.  This also extended the period during which he believed  he 
couldnt make  any changes to his plan  which I think would have only added to his overall concerns 
and frustration. 
I think  Aviva should pay Mr B a further £150  for the distress and inconvenience it caused here. Its 
already paid £100 so the total amount of compensation should  be £250.
Mr B has also said that he would like Aviva to allow  him to transfer to another  provider  should he 
wish to do so, without  further  cost or charge.
 
I havent been  made  aware of whether  there are any penalties to be applied as Mr B hasnt made  that 
request yet. But I dont think Aviva has breached its contract to Mr B in such  a way that it should offer 
him concessions if he wishes to transfer.  Im not aware that Aviva has asked Mr B to transfer his plan, 
so if he wishes to do so  which  he is free to consider,  I think  it should be on the basis that would  
normally apply if he decided to transfer his pension  to a new provider at this point in time.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  should  pay an 
additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B. It should also provide evidence  to 
demonstrate payment of the £100 it said its already paid.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884789