K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt act fairly or reasonably when 
dealing with their claim  under a legal expenses insurance policy. They  want Great  Lakes to 
cover the costs of using  their choice of solicitor  and compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs M had legal expenses insurance  policies with Great  Lakes, starting in August 
2016. They  said that a neighbour was disputing  access  to a part of their land (claim 1) and 
there was an attempt to put in place an order for a new public footpath  over their property 
(claim 2). There were court and process deadlines in place which had to be complied  with. 
Mr and Mrs M made claims  under their policy in August and October 2018, but thought  
Great Lakes wasnt giving  them enough support  as they werent happy with the panel  
solicitor appointed to review their claims to decide whether to accept  them, and had been 
told it was unlikely the deadlines  would  be met due to lack of time (as Mr and Mrs M didnt 
come to Great Lakes  until the cases were  underway).  They said Great  Lakes took too long 
to consider their claim.
Mr and Mrs M privately funded the litigation for claim 1 and appeal  for claim 2 by borrowing 
money. They wanted Great Lakes to cover  the costs  of using their own solicitors, but their 
first choice of solicitor wasnt willing to accept  the hourly rate offered by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Great Lakes, and said that the panel solicitors  had ignored a 
barristers opinion for claim 1 which said it had a 55% change  of success for claim 1 (subject 
to a supportive experts opinion being  obtained). They also believed Great Lakes was trying  
to block their claims and caused  delay  deliberately.  Great  Lakes responded in October  2019.
Great Lakes response
Great Lakes said that claim  2 when first brought to it in October 2018 was reviewed by panel  
solicitors who said that Mr and Mrs M didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
Great Lakes said that it didnt cause unnecessary delays, but further  information  from 
Mr and Mrs M was needed, and they didnt progress their claim with Great Lakes until 
August 2019 when  they had expert evidence. 
Great Lakes agreed  that the panel  solicitors  did delay responding to the new information 
provided, which was why it appointed new panel  solicitors to review  claim 2. It said IT issues  
had caused further delay,  but Great Lakes then noticed an exclusion in the policy  which 
affected claim 2. Claims relating to restrictions placed on Mr and Mrs Ms home by any 
government, public  or local authority  were  excluded; Great Lakes said the attempt by the 
local council  to place  a footpath order over Mr and Mrs Ms property was covered by this 
exclusion. It said that it shouldve noticed this earlier, though it didnt make a difference in 
practice as so far it had no legal opinion saying  that claim 2 had a reasonable prospect of 
success, but offered £200 compensation for any trouble and upset caused  by this oversight.
Ref: DRN99701552Great Lakes moved  on to deal with claim 1. It said that Mr and Mrs M first approached it in 
August 2018 but said they already had a solicitor of their own choice acting on their behalf 
and this solicitor told it that a barristers opinion was being obtained.  Great Lakes said 
Mr and Mrs M were  told repeatedly that they needed  to provide information about  the claim 
and their solicitors would need  to agree to Great Lakes terms to be covered by the policy.  
The solicitors wouldnt agree. Great Lakes pointed out that it appeared Mr and Mrs M had 
known about the claim  for months  before  contacting it, so it wasnt responsible if court  
deadlines werent met as it was entitled  to check the validity  of the claim. It said that it 
responded to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitor,  but the email went into her spam folder, which  
caused delay  but wasnt its fault.
Great Lakes went to say that in relation to claim 1, a barristers opinion  was obtained at 
Mr and Mrs Ms cost (as their solicitor  hadnt  told Great  Lakes about  the merits of the claim), 
but it wasnt a complete  opinion. The barrister had said he needed to see an experts report  
on key issues, and said that there were several  points on which  he couldnt advise as a 
result. Great  Lakes didnt think that the opinion was sufficient  in the circumstances to show 
reasonable prospects of success, and this was the view of the panel solicitors, even after the 
expert evidence obtained  was sent in September 2019 and reviewed. And it thought  that the 
dispute was known about earlier by Mr and Mrs M as in December 2015  they instructed a 
surveyor to mark out boundaries, which was before the policy had started.
Great Lakes also denied that its team had been dishonest or tried to stop claims being made 
under the policy.  It pointed out that it didnt hear from Mr and Mrs Ms chosen solicitor for 
months at a time and the expert reports were obtained during this period of silence. But it 
offered another £200 compensation (a total of £400) and to refund the costs  of the barristers 
opinion (up to £1,200) as Great Lakes thought it shouldve declined  claim 1 earlier. It 
commented that a third claim  hadnt been submitted  for cover  as the claim form hadnt been 
completed and sent to it.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us, and settled claim 1 out of court, but said theyd have done 
this earlier  if the decline of the claim had been earlier  (though they also thought their solicitor 
had been negligent and said they had a strong case). They  said that claim 1 was based on a 
different point of dispute to that connected  to the 2015 boundary  setting, and they werent 
aware of claim 1 until 2017. Mr and Mrs M also said that they wouldve preferred to spend 
their money on a specialist solicitor  in respect of claim 2, rather  than on expert fees.  They 
also raised a point about a third claim which they didnt  formally seek to be covered, but said 
formed part of the expert  fees they paid for, and which they said Great Lakes said theyd 
have to get to get cover.
Great Lakes pointed out the timeline of events for claim  1 referred  to the 2015 marking of 
boundaries, and that in January 2016  the other  party  had started to block access for 
Mr and Mrs M, while Mr and Mrs M removed the blockage in March 2016 and in April had an 
argument with those involved. This pre-dated the start of the policy.  Great  Lakes also 
reiterated that for claim 2, the local council  was involved and was proceeding to make the 
order creating the footpath in September 2018.
Ref: DRN99701553The investigators view
The investigators view was that the complaint should be partially  upheld.  She said that 
Great Lakes had already accepted that two excess fees (totalling £500)  hadnt been 
returned, which shouldve  happened as the claims were declined. It had offered to refund 
this with 8% interest,  and also pay interest  on the refund of the barristers fees. The 
investigator didnt  make  any findings that Great Lakes had caused  unnecessary  delays or 
that its staff had acted  inappropriately.
The investigator said claim  1 shouldve been  declined as it was connected to the use of a 
particular piece of land which had been  in dispute  as far back  as 2012, which pre-dated the 
start of the policy. But she didnt  think  the legal costs incurred by Mr and Mrs M should  be 
paid by Great Lakes  as it made  it clear  that the claim  wasnt covered due to the failure to 
show reasonable prospects of success.  The investigator noted  that Great Lakes said a 
supportive expert report would be needed  to show reasonable prospects  of success, and 
agreed that until this was shown, claim 1 wouldnt be covered under the terms of the policy.
The investigator observed that Mr and Mrs M dealt with claim 1 for over 18 months before 
contacting Great Lakes to make a claim under the policy  so it looked likely that they intended  
to fight the case  regardless  of cover  or the budget they said they had available (as this was 
exceeded). And she said that they wouldve needed  an experts report  to act in any event 
and didnt show it to Great Lakes until August 2019. She didnt think  Great Lakes  failure to 
decline earlier made any difference  to the outcome. The investigator said the refund  of the 
cost of the barristers  opinion with interest  and the £200 already offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator in relation  to claim 2 noted that initially  Great Lakes said the claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success without  a supportive experts report, but again  said 
that the report was needed to appeal the order in any event. The investigator  said that the 
exclusion did apply as the council was issuing the footpath order,  despite the involvement of 
third parties. She pointed  out that Mrs M had accepted that the issue had been  ongoing  
before the policy had started, which meant  it wasnt covered as a pre-existing dispute 
anyway. 
The investigator said claim  2 had never been  accepted for cover, but Mr and Mrs M chose  to 
proceed with it, so thought the late decline made no real difference. Indeed,  she noted that 
the appeal was continuing,  despite  the lack of funding. The investigator thought that the 
£200 compensation offered for the trouble  and upset caused regarding  claim 2 was fair and 
reasonable. And the investigator  didnt think the expert  report  for the third claim should be 
paid by Great Lakes  as she thought it was likely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve wanted  it for 
the claim they intend to bring in the future.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said that the investigators view wasnt  fair and sent a lengthy 
response to her view.  Mr and Mrs M said that they were  also unhappy about the way the 
claims process was handled by Great  Lakes,  and said if it had declined the claims earlier,  
they wouldnt have  incurred the legal  and other  costs that they did. 
Ref: DRN99701554my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Great Lakes,  Im also 
referring to its agents. Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity  within  the jurisdiction of 
this service, so I cant deal with complaints specifically about this. But I will look at whether 
Great Lakes has generally dealt with Mr and Mrs M fairly and reasonably. While I note 
theres a third claim yet to be submitted to Great Lakes, this isnt part of this complaint  as no 
formal claim was made by Mr and Mrs M. The expert costs relating to this third claim though 
can be considered  as Mr and Mrs M have said this was only obtained  to get cover  in the 
future on Great Lakes  instructions  and Great Lakes have given consent.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Was it fair and reasonable to decline the claims?
Claim 1 was in essence declined  because  Great Lakes  wasnt  satisfied that there  were  
reasonable prospects of success. The policy required at least 51% chance of success.
Mr and Mrs M say that their first chosen  solicitor said they had a strong case, but also that 
they were negligent.  I cant  deal with this issue as its outside the jurisdiction of this service,  
but its relevant  as it shows  Mr and Mrs M were relying on the solicitors views.  Great  Lakes 
didnt get such  advice from these chosen solicitors as it was told a barristers opinion  was 
pending. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for Great Lakes to wait and then ask its 
panel solicitor to review  in the absence of any fee agreement with the chosen solicitors.
The barristers opinion  in respect of claim  1 doesnt  meet the requirements of the policy. 
While the barrister said there was a 55% chance of success, he also said initially he had 
thought that he couldnt  advise, and was only willing to advise in the hope an experts  report 
would be sourced which would say what he hoped  it would. The opinion  wasnt  a final 
opinion and entirely dependent on evidence which the barrister wished would exist in the 
future. In all the circumstances, and given the advice of the panel solicitors, I cant  say 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably  in relying on the advice of suitably qualified 
solicitors that claim 1 didnt have  reasonable prospects of success.
But claim 1 also faced  other difficulties. The policy excluded pre-existing disputes,  and 
Great Lakes said that the dispute  was known to Mr and Mrs M by January 2016 at the latest. 
While Mr and Mrs M feel the earlier dispute was unconnected, I disagree. It involved the 
same parties and the same piece of land, and according to the evidence  before me, theres 
been issues about this since 2012 (and undoubtedly by 2016).
Ref: DRN99701555Yet it wasnt  clear from the outset that the claim shouldve been declined  on this basis  as 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  think there was a link with the earlier events,  and it didnt become clear  
until the complaint  handler investigated.  The facts surrounding claim 1 wasnt easy to 
establish as there were  other matters  being raised  and the 2016  events  werent set out in the 
claim form completed by Mr and Mrs M when they submitted the claim to Great Lakes 
(though they were in the information sent by their solicitor in August 2018). This information  
was assessed  by the panel solicitors who didnt mention it either, but their terms of reference 
appear to be to advise  on the prospects of success of the claim, not whether it was covered 
by the policy.  But Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs Ms chosen solicitor  that the dates meant the 
claim would be covered if there were reasonable prospects of success  in August 2018; if 
there had been  reasonable prospects of success, my view mightve been different and I 
mightve found the insurer bound by this assertion.
But given the fact that reasonable prospects  of success hadnt been  established, and 
Mr and Mrs M were  told that the claim  hadnt  yet been accepted and more consideration was 
required, I dont  think this particular point makes  much difference  as the investigators view 
says. I think it was fair and reasonable to decline claim 1 given the terms and conditions of 
the policy being clearly set out. The timing of the decline is more critical as Mr and Mrs Ms 
key argument  is that if the claims had been declined earlier,  they wouldve acted differently, 
and Great Lakes itself says it shouldve noticed  this issue earlier. I deal with this below.
Claim 2 is different in its nature. The claim is about  the local council wanting to impose a 
new footpath through  Mr and Mrs Ms property, and their appeal against its order. While 
Mr and Mrs M say that this isnt relevant as their neighbours were seeking the access, I 
disagree as the critical part of this issue was the order the local council sought to make.  As 
outlined above,  the policy excluded claims arising from restrictions  placed on a home  by a 
local council. The exclusion is clearly set out within the policy  and is designed to avoid the 
insurer having to fund appeals against  government orders  and any consequent public 
inquiry. Its fair and reasonable for an insurer to set out what  risks it is and isnt willing to 
cover. And its clear from the evidence  that the dispute pre-dates  the start of the policy  by 
some time. I cant say that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining  claim 2, 
though the timing again is critical and dealt  with below.
The timing  of the decline of the claims
It wasnt until October 2019 that both claims were declined by Great  Lakes. Mr and Mrs M 
say that they were  told the claims had been  accepted, but on looking at the evidence, I dont 
agree. What Mr and Mrs M (and their first choice of solicitors) were told was that in terms of 
the dates and coverage the claims appeared to be covered,  but there needed to be a 
reasonable prospect of success and an agreement  with the chosen solicitors. 
Neither of these conditions were  met  the solicitors didnt agree with Great  Lakes terms. 
The panel  solicitors reviewing the claim said that the prospect of success werent  sufficient in 
October 2018. And the barristers  opinion didnt unconditionally say that claim 1 had 
reasonable prospects of success as explained above. For both claims, the panel solicitors  
advising Great Lakes said neither claim had reasonable prospects of success, and its fair 
and reasonable for insurers to rely upon  the advice of suitably qualified  solicitors. While 
Mr and Mrs M may feel the solicitors  werent  specialist enough or senior enough, Im 
satisfied that the panel  solicitors were suitably  qualified.
Ref: DRN99701556I think though  that Great  Lakes shouldve  told Mr and Mrs M earlier that the claims were 
declined as it accepts.  In respect  of claim 1, I note that Mr and Mrs M and their chosen 
solicitor were repeatedly  told that the barristers  opinion wasnt good enough and there was 
no cover  in place (as it made it clear the expert  evidence yet to be obtained was essential to 
give a final opinion),  and that Great Lakes  wasnt satisfied there were reasonable prospects 
of success. I cant see that the point about  the pre-existing dispute  wasnt ever addressed  
clearly, even in the final response,  though I think this is because the lack of reasonable 
prospects of success overshadowed everything  else.
Claim 2 was always about the local councils  proposal and later decision to order a new 
footpath across Mr and Mrs Ms property. Under  the terms and conditions  of the policy  as 
explained above, an exclusion existed that said restrictions  on Mr and Mrs Ms home  
imposed by government  or a local authority werent  covered. Ive found that it was fair and 
reasonable to apply  this exclusion, but I think Great Lakes  shouldve noticed this much 
earlier and from a very early stage.  This was unfair  and unreasonable.
Delay and Great Lakes  conduct generally
While Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes caused unnecessary delay, I cant  agree 
having reviewed  the evidence.  I can see delays  were  caused due to IT issues outside  of its 
control or due to the chosen solicitors not checking  the spam  folder;  none  of this was 
Great Lakes fault. In fact, I note it changed  the panel  solicitors at one point to get the claims 
reviewed again  due to delays on the part of the first panel solicitor.  Great  Lakes isnt 
responsible for the actions of any of the solicitors  involved. And it wasnt  to blame  for the 
tight timescales as it wasnt  approached by Mr and Mrs M until the claims were underway.  It 
also isnt unreasonable or unfair  to require a policyholder to sign and return  forms to start the 
review process.
I also disagree that its staff were  dishonest;  I think part of the problem is that Mr and Mrs M 
seem to have reached the view that the claims were covered  when  Great Lakes made it 
clear that it was yet to be satisfied about either claim having  reasonable prospect of success
Putting things right
Ive found Great Lakes to be at fault in relation to the failure  to decline the claims earlier.  I 
think its possible that the barristers opinion mightnt  have been  needed  if this had 
happened, though  the chosen solicitor told Great Lakes it was being obtained anyway. I see 
Great Lakes gave Mr and Mrs M the benefit  of the doubt and offered  to pay £1200  toward 
the cost of the opinion with interest,  and I think this is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they wouldve acted differently if the declines had happened  
earlier. Im not persuaded. The claims werent  accepted for cover, but Mr and Mrs M 
continued to deal with them privately.  I note that the evidence as a whole shows that 
Mr and Mrs M have  a number of disputes  with their neighbours and affecting  the property, 
and were keen to deal with these matters. I dont think its likely  that Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
simply left the claims upon  being  told they were  declined.  Indeed,  Mr and Mrs M say if theyd 
known that claim 2 would  be declined, they wouldnt have spent money on expert  reports but 
on a specialist solicitor  to appeal against the councils order. 
Ref: DRN99701557I did note that that at times Mr and Mrs M and their solicitor talked about resolving the 
disputes amicably, but claim  2 was a claim they confirmed that they would continue to fight 
as shown above, while for claim 1 the panel  solicitors told Mr and Mrs M to settle,  and they 
didnt do so for a long time afterwards. The terms used by Mr and Mrs M in emails  to 
describe those suing  them in relation to claim 1 werent conciliatory. I dont think  Great  
Lakes failure to decline the claims  earlier  made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ms decision to 
continue the various  proceedings. I dont  think its fair or reasonable for their legal costs to 
be paid by Great Lakes  in all the circumstances. 
I note that Mr and Mrs M say that the expert reports were only obtained to get Great Lakes 
to accept the claims, and with a view to get the third claim covered in the future. But the 
experts reports wouldve  been needed  in any event to deal with any of the claims,  as 
confirmed by way of example by the first chosen  solicitor in their letter to Great Lakes on 
6 November 2018. As these were all claims about  property, the view of the experts would be 
critical to be successful. The expert reports appear  to comply with the court  rules for such 
reports, unlike the very short plan originally submitted to Great Lakes by another  surveyor,  
and were used as part of the process to continue the proceedings. I dont think  the expert 
reports were only obtained to persuade Great Lakes to accept the claims, and wouldve 
been needed to continue  the claims.
Its clear Mr and Mrs M have suffered trouble  and upset, and money never  truly 
compensates for this. I can only award such compensation for the failings I have found. 
Theres no loss of expectation as Great Lakes never accepted the claims and Ive found that 
the late declines didnt  affect Mr and Mrs Ms position as I think  that they wouldve  continued  
funding the claims privately as this is what they chose to do despite Great  Lakes negative  
view of the prospects  of success. Taking everything  into account, Im satisfied that a total of 
£400 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Great Lakes Insurance  SE should  do the 
following:
 refund £1200 towards the barristers fee for the opinion (inclusive of VAT) with 
interest paid at 8% simple  interest  a year from the date of payment of the fee 
note (evidence of the date of payment must be provided to Great  Lakes) to 
the date of refund; 
 refund £500 of excess fees with interest paid at 8% simple interest a year 
from the date of the fees were taken  to the date of refund;
 pay £400 compensation for the trouble  and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 June  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9970155