K820x#14complaint
Mr Y is unhappy about the way First Central  Insurance Management Limited  dealt with his 
request to change his address on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr Y previously brought  a complaint to this service  about his car insurance  renewal because 
he couldnt get a quote for a change of address. This has already been  investigated  by our 
service and a final decision was issued. So I wont be commenting on it in this decision. But I 
am considering whats happened since then  when Mr Y got back  in touch with First Central  
to update his address. 
Mr Y complains that he was told his premium would increase as a result  of him updating the 
address on his policy. He says this isnt fair because hed been  trying to update his address  
since his policy was due to renew in June 2018.  And he hadnt  been able to because  of 
issues with First Centrals systems. He also explained he hadnt been able to use his car 
since June 2018  as his address hadnt been updated on his policy.  
He explained  that his new address is very close to where he lived previously so the premium 
shouldnt have increased as much  as it did.
Mr Y is also unhappy with the phone calls hes had with First Central. He says hes spent 
long periods of time on hold to First Central  and sometimes the calls were cut off. Mr Y says 
he was left voicemails from various  advisors  at First Central who provided incorrect  
extension numbers. Hes said there were times he was promised a call back but this didnt 
happen and when he did speak to First Central he was asked security questions. 
Mr Y has said he was also promised that a particular person at First Central would take 
ownership of his complaint but this didnt happen. And when  Mr Y spoke to a different 
person at First Central he wasnt fully up to date on his situation. This person also said Mr Y 
only had ten years of no claims  discount  applied to his policy  when in fact this shouldve  
been 12 years. However when this advisor updated the policy, this in fact made it more 
expensive. Mr Y says this doesnt make sense.
our adjudicators findings
Our adjudicator said it wasnt unusual  for premiums to increase when a customer changes 
address so she didnt  think  First Central  had done anything wrong.
She also said First Central had acknowledged  its standards fell below what  Mr Y should  
expect when he contacted it to update his address. It cancelled  the policy Mr Y was trying  to 
change his address  on, refunded him the premium, fees and charges, and set up a new 
policy for a lower price  and waived its £50 set up fee. Our adjudicator felt this was fair and 
reasonable and more  than covered any stress  and inconvenience caused. 
Mr Ys response
Mr Y didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. He said First Central told him this complaint 
would fail and hes unhappy about  this. 
Ref: DRN96974372He said the calls that got cut off were dismissed by the adjudicator and she didnt 
recommend anything for this or look at the suspicious reasons as to why the calls ended. He 
said the adjudicator  didnt  address the fact that he had to liaise with both our service and 
First Central to get the matter resolved. 
Mr Y was unhappy that the adjudicator didnt comment on the promised call backs  that didnt 
happen and that he was contacted by someone  other than the person who said theyd take 
ownership of his complaint. Mr Y was also unhappy  that the adjudicator didnt comment  on 
the issue about the no claims  bonus. 
As Mr Y didnt agree,  the case was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Mr Y has raised lots of concerns about First Central.  Ive thought  
about everything hes said and given this careful  consideration.  So even though  I havent  
commented on everything individually in my decision, I have taken into account everything  
Mr Y has told us.
I understand why Mr Y was concerned that the premium had increased despite not moving 
far from his previous  address.  But its up to insurers to decide how much they wish to 
charge. And it isnt unusual for premiums to change when consumers move address. I can 
see that following  Mr Ys query  about the quote that had been given to him, First Central 
checked this with the insurer  and confirmed it was correct. So I dont think First Central did 
anything wrong  when they initially told him the premium would increase by changing his 
address. 
In any event, First Central later agreed  to cancel Mr Ys policy  and refund him the premium, 
fees and charges. So Mr Y didnt actually end up paying  the additional premium he was 
quoted. First Central set up a new policy for Mr Y for a lower price without charging  the set-
up fee, which would ordinarily be £50. I agree  with our adjudicator  that this is more  than First 
Central was required  to do so I wont be asking them to do anything further in relation to this.   
Mr Y has said he couldnt drive his car while the complaint was being  investigated  because  
his address hadnt been updated. Ive explained why I dont think  First Central did anything 
wrong by saying there would be an additional  premium for cover at the new address. So I 
dont think I can fairly  say its responsible for the address change not taking place at this 
point. It was Mr Ys decision not to pay the higher premium and administration  fee. And he 
was free to find insurance elsewhere  if he wasnt happy with the quoted  price.  
Ive listened to a number  of calls between  Mr Y and First Central, including voicemails  that 
were left for Mr Y. Ive also looked at the extension numbers that were left for Mr Y and 
compared these  to the extension numbers of the advisors. Having done  so, I cant see that 
First Central provided Mr Y with incorrect  extension  numbers.  And based  on the calls Ive 
listened to, I dont agree that anyone  spoke to Mr Y in an inappropriate way. 
I can see that when  Mr Y spoke to First Central they asked him questions to verify who he 
was. I dont think First Central did anything wrong  in this respect as they needed to make  
Ref: DRN96974373sure they were speaking  to the right person  and to help keep his information secure. And in 
the calls Ive listened to Mr Y seems happy  to answer these questions.
I can see that some of the calls between  Mr Y and First Central were cut off. There  doesnt  
seem to be an explanation for this but I havent  seen any evidence that First Central  were  
doing this deliberately. And after some of the calls were dropped, First Central  tried to call 
Mr Y back. So I dont find that First Central  have done something wrong in this respect 
either. 
Mr Y is unhappy that he experienced long times  on hold whilst he was trying  to get through  
to discuss his complaint.  Im aware Mr Y wanted his complaint  dealt with as soon as possible 
and was already  unhappy  with the service provided by First Central because of his prior 
complaint. But I dont think theyve done anything wrong by placing Mr Y on hold when they 
were unable to answer his calls  although  I understand why Mr Y wouldve found this 
frustrating.
I can see that Mr Y was told by an advisor that hed take ownership  of Mr Ys complaint. 
However, a different advisor did later get in touch  with Mr Y. But this advisor  was only trying  
to help. So whilst I can understand Mr Ys frustration, I dont think  this means First Central 
should pay any compensation  for this. 
In one of the calls an advisor  from First Central notices that Mr Ys no claims bonus is 
incorrect and in order to assist Mr Y he updates this on his policy but unfortunately it 
increases the premium.  At this stage Mr Y agrees to leave it at the current level of no claims 
bonus to keep the premium down. I can appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for Mr Y 
and this wasnt an accurate representation  of the length of time hed gone  without  making a 
claim. 
However, when Mr Y was called back by the person looking  into his complaint she says a 
note will be added to First Centrals  system so that if Mr Y decides  to take out a policy  with a 
new insurer this will be updated. So I dont think First Central need to do anything further 
here as First Central will provide any future insurer with the correct information  about his no 
claims bonus, so he wont  be financially disadvantaged. 
I note that Mr Y was promised return calls but this didnt always happen. First Central have 
acknowledged their standards fell below the level expected and have apologised for this. I 
know this would have  been inconvenient for Mr Y. But taking into account the fact that 
First Central cancelled Mr Ys policy, refunded him the premium, fees and charges, and set 
him up a new policy  for a lower price and waived its £50 set up fee  when they didnt have  
to - I dont think they need to do anything further.
Mr Y also says First Central told him in a phone call this complaint would fail. Having listened 
to it, I agree with the adjudicator that there was a misunderstanding. And I think that was 
caused partly because Mr Ys initial complaint was ongoing at the time, so First Central were 
sometimes talking about the first complaint  when  Mr Y was talking about  this complaint. But, 
like the adjudicator, I dont  think First Central was deliberately trying  to dismiss Mr Ys 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN96974374my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9697437