K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), has been of unsatisfactory  
quality.
background
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in April 2018. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. The car, which was first registered in November 2012, had 
already completed  24,000 miles when she took receipt of it. 
In September  2018 Mrs B complained to MotoNovo about the car. She explained that shed 
been to the dealership the month  before but the car was still losing  power and warning 
lamps were  illuminated.
MotoNovo arranged an independent  inspection of the vehicle in October 2018. The inspector 
said:
the vehicle did display signs of poor running  and appeared to lack power
He suggested  that further  investigations  would be required under workshop conditions but 
he didnt think it was likely the fault that currently existed was there at the point of supply.
MotoNovo therefore  rejected Mrs Bs complaint.  They said they were only responsible for 
faults that were  present or developing when the car was supplied  to her.
So Mrs B referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. 
She explained that if a fault happened  within the first six months  the relevant legislation  said 
we should assume  the fault was present  from the beginning. She said that here, the 
inspector had identified a fault existed but that the further investigations he had suggested  
hadnt taken place. She thought it was for MotoNovo to demonstrate the fault wasnt there at 
the beginning and that they hadnt  done  this.
She understood that Mrs B had stopped making  payments when the car developed faults 
and that it had subsequently  been repossessed. So she didnt  think  it would be possible to 
complete the further investigations  the inspector had suggested and instead, she thought 
MotoNovo should  cancel  the finance  agreement.  She didnt  think  they needed to return any 
payments as Mrs B had stopped making  them and she didnt feel any compensation should  
be paid either as Mrs B had some use of the car and also because shed stopped paying 
and this had resulted in further  investigations not being possible.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint MotoNovo so please  let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN96134622Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs B. The car 
here was around  five and a half years old and had travelled 24,000 miles at inception.  So Id 
expect it to have  some  wear and tear but I would not expect  it to be losing power.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
But MotoNovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Mrs B first reported  the problem to the dealership in late August 2018. This was within six 
months and I therefore think  the onus was on MotoNovo to accept her claim or to 
demonstrate that the car was, most  likely, not faulty  at the point  of supply. Im not persuaded 
they have done that.
The independent inspectors comments were  limited.  He was able to replicate the loss of 
power Mrs B complained  of but he could not complete  his assessment as he explained the 
car would require workshop evaluation. Im not persuaded  by his assessment that the car 
probably wasnt experiencing these problems at the point  of supply. I say that because its 
clear he hadnt diagnosed  the problem or provided  any insight into what it may be. In those 
circumstances, I think  MotoNovo needed  to complete the workshop  evaluation  before they 
could fairly  suggest  the fault wasnt there, or developing, at inception.
Ref: DRN96134623That workshop evaluation is no longer feasible  as the car has been repossessed.  So in 
those circumstances  the fairest resolution  would  be to allow Mrs B to reject the car and 
therefore terminate  her finance  agreement.
I agree  with the adjudicator that this isnt a case in which I would consider any repayment of 
finance instalments  is due. Mrs B didnt make many payments and she did benefit from the 
car, albeit  for a limited period of time.
I also dont think any compensation should  be paid, and for the same reasons the 
adjudicator suggested.
But MotoNovo should  clear  any adverse  reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit file as 
I think its clear  the payments would not have  stopped if the car was of satisfactory quality. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing more to pay;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit  file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613462