K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited  has refused to provide him with a deed of 
assignment proving  that it owns the debt it is trying to collect  from him. He also complains 
about the poor service he has received from the business in trying to resolve matters.
background
In September  2017 Mr H received a letter from Hoist proposing a settlement figure of some  
£100 on a debt of around  £400 it said he owed. Mr H replied saying he didnt accept  any 
liability for the debt,  which was in any event statute barred as more  than six years  had 
elapsed.
Hoist replied saying  that as the debt had been made subject to a court order in September 
2008, it could  not then become statute  barred. Mr H continued to argue that the debt was 
statue barred and asked for details of the original creditor and of how the debt had arisen. 
But he said in order to bring matters to a swift resolution he would accept Hoists settlement 
proposal and asked for confirmation by return of post. Hoist  didnt respond.
Hoist contacted Mr H again in early  2018 providing details of his original debt.  It said its 
previous settlement offer had expired and it offered a new, but increased figure. Over the 
following months Hoist  wrote a number  of letters to Mr H and said it would send someone to 
his house to progress matters.
In April 2018 Mr H complained to Hoist about its bullying and harassment and about its 
failure to reply to his September  2017 offer to settle.  He also continued to argue that the debt 
was statue barred,  and he asked for a deed of assignment.
Initially, Hoist sent an incomplete response  to Mr Hs complaint. But by October  2018  it had 
apologised for its failure to action Mr Hs settlement  offer and said it was still happy to accept 
that amount.  It also sent him a notice of assignment for the debt, but not the deed of 
assignment, which it described as a commercially  sensitive document.
Mr H complained to us about the way Hoist  had dealt with matters, about its refusal to send  
him both a deed of assignment  and the credit  agreement  from the original creditors.  
In summary,  and after setting out the chronology of events, our investigator  concluded that 
Mr H owed the money claimed  by Hoist and that Mr H should contact the business to agree 
a settlement figure.
Mr H was dissatisfied with this and complained that Hoist  was still harassing him whilst  we 
were dealing with his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has not sought  to argue that he doesnt owe the money Hoist is pursuing  him for, rather 
he has asked for copies of various documents that would prove that he does. In particular he 
has asked for a deed of assignment transferring debt ownership from the original creditor  to 
Hoist. But instead  Hoist has sent Mr H a notice  of assignment saying that the deed of 
assignment is a commercially privileged document. It has also named the original creditor  
Ref: DRN95812562and stated the sum owed at the time of the debt transfer. In my judgment it has done  
sufficient, and there is no requirement for it to send Mr H the deed of assignment.
Mr H believes  that because more  than six years has elapsed since  the debt was incurred, it 
is statue barred and can no longer  be collected.  But the debt was made subject to a court 
order in 2008  and Im afraid that if Mr H wants to argue his statue barred point he will now 
need to do so through the courts. But my understanding of the position is that it is not 
possible to apply to dismiss  a debt on the grounds  of it being statute barred once a court 
order has been granted.
Mr H has complained that Hoist has caused  him a great deal of stress in pursuing him for a 
debt that he doesnt necessarily accept that he owes. But as long as businesses adhere  to 
the rules and guidance applicable to the collection of debts, they are entitled to be proactive 
in seeking repayment of money owed to them,  and to send clear and firmly worded 
correspondence. And having  looked  at the letters sent by Hoist  to Mr H I am satisfied that 
these do not amount to harassment, although  I recognise that Mr H may well have  found  that 
they caused him stress.  
Mr H has said that Hoist  didnt reply to his acceptance  of its settlement offer,  and that it 
hasnt always replied  to other correspondence  from him. Hoist has apologised for its lapse in 
not progressing  Mr Hs offer to settle.  It did however repeat that offer in October  2018,  and 
made a further  offer in November 2018. But the debt remains outstanding and Mr H hasnt 
contacted Hoist to agree  a way forward. I suggest that he now does so.
Having considered the full details of Mr Hs complaint, I am satisfied that it is more  likely than 
not that he owes the debt claimed by Hoist, and I recommend that he contacts the business  
to arrange to repay some or all of the amount he owes.  In considering a settlement figure 
Hoist will no doubt wish to take account  of Mr Hs financial  circumstances, and if he is 
experiencing financial difficulty, it must treat him positively  and sympathetically.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9581256