K822xcomplaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about how Future  Life Wealth Management Limited (FLWM) dealt with 
the transfer of ownership of a property  held within her self invested personal pension  (SIPP). 
Mrs B says she wasnt given important information  about the transaction  and shes lost out 
financially as a result. 
background to the complaint
One of our adjudicators looked  into what had happened.  She issued her view on 8 April 
2018. It included  a summary of what had happened. Ive repeated  that here.   
Mrs B and four others purchased a commercial property using their combined  pension plans. 
At the time they all worked  for the same employer who was renting the jointly  owned 
property. Mrs B and another colleague had left that company. They  intended to transfer  their 
pensions to new arrangements and to facilitate that had agreed to transfer their shares of the 
property to two other investors. Initially it appears a third member  had agreed to sell her 
share but that didnt happen.
FLWM agreed  to act on behalf  of all five property owners  both buyers and sellers. In a 
revised information document dated  22 January 2015, FLWM set out details of what would 
need to happen. It also set out that FLWM  would  receive a total fee of £750 (payable  from 
the pensions) for dealing with the reorganisation. It was clear  from the outset that FLWM  
would not be involved in any onward pension transfer as a new financial adviser  would be 
brought on to do that.
Mrs B was told that a surveyors  valuation  would be needed to determine  the market  value of 
the property and that FLWM would instruct the appointment of a particular surveyor.  
However, because  the transaction  involved borrowing,  the mortgage lender used a different 
company.
FLWM asked Mrs B and her former colleagues  to sign a property reorganisation sheet  in 
June 2015. At that point the expected  value  of the property was about £510,000 in line with 
the figure shown  on the pension statements.
In July 2015 a surveyors  valuation was sent to FLWM  and the potential property buyers.
That showed  a value of £210,000. Mrs B wasnt sent a copy  of this valuation  and says she 
wasnt made aware of it until after the transaction had gone  ahead.
In August  2015  a new financial adviser  was appointed to take the transfer  process forward.
Later a third adviser was subsequently  appointed  to facilitate the transfer. However,  after
the appointment of a new adviser  FLWM  continued to act for Mrs B and her colleagues on 
the property transfer.
Mrs B signed the property reorganisation form in September 2015  and FLWM  confirmed 
theyd received it on 18 September. The transfer  didnt  go ahead  for several  months after 
this point.
Once that had happened  a complaint, on behalf of all five property owners,  was made  to
the pension provider. It decided to commission a new valuation  from a new surveyor but that 
provided an unchanged valuation. However, the provider put forward  a potential  solution  to 
reverse the property  sale and reinstate the original  ownership percentages. This would 
Ref: DRN94838082require the consent of all the owners (past and present). Consent wasnt given so the 
transaction wasnt reversed and the property has since been  transferred to a new pension 
provider.
The adjudicator upheld Mrs Bs complaint against  FLWM but only in part. She recognised 
Mrs Bs concerns about FLWM having a conflict of interest. And that Mrs B hadnt been  
provided with the valuation  FLWM had received from the lender  the adjudicator said Mrs B 
should have been informed and FLWM  hadnt explained why it hadnt  passed the information 
on to her. 
But that didnt  mean Mrs B should be compensated for the difference between the value of 
her share of the property and what she expected to get based on the value shown on the 
statements  which unfortunately wasnt the true value.  And, on balance, the adjudicator 
thought Mrs B would  still have gone  ahead with the sale of the property even  if shed known 
its true market value.  But shed suffered  significant  distress and inconvenience as a result of 
FLWMs failure  to give her that information.  The adjudicator suggested  a payment of £750.  
FLWM didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings.  But to bring the matter to a conclusion it 
was prepared to offer £750 plus a refund of the costs associated  with the transaction.
Mrs B didnt accept that was sufficient compensation. She said if shed left things unchanged 
shed have continued to receive  rent from the tenant company  by October 2018 shed have 
accrued £10,593.48. And, shortly  after the reallocation was complete, the company had 
been sold to very large corporation. Mrs B said,  as a joint owner of the property when the 
negotiations were taking place, that should  have  been disclosed to her but it wasnt.  
Mrs B maintained shed  suffered a very substantial loss. In 2008 shed transferred into the 
SIPP funds  totalling  £43,000 which she said FLWM had managed  to reduce  to £31,238.95  
as shown on her October 2016 statement. That figure should  have been £61,117.72 based  
on the transfer allocation shed signed  in September 2015.  So shed come out with less than 
shed put in. She calculated her total loss at £48.849.19, made up of lost rent of £10,593.48 
and the loss from the reallocation of the SIPP (after revaluation) of £37,895.60.   
Mrs B remained unhappy  about the conflict of interest. She provided a copy of the minutes of 
a trustee meeting.  She said FLWM hadnt just agreed to undertake a financial transaction  for 
her but also to collate  and provide  information on her SIPP  to enable her to make decisions.  
She said that was a regulated activity  which should  be included in her complaint. 
She added that FLWM hadnt  said it had a conflict of interest. Shed suggested to FLWM that 
there might be a conflict of interest.  FLWMs adviser had assured her she would act 
professionally and in Mrs Bs interests  as her client. But when the lower valuation  was 
received FLWM didnt disclose it to Mrs B and highlight that it was significantly lower, which 
would benefit  FLWMs  buyer clients. Mrs B maintained  that, if shed aware of the lower 
valuation she wouldnt have proceeded with the reallocation of funds and transferring out of 
the SIPP. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94838083Initially FLWM  said we couldnt  look into Mrs Bs complaint. One of my colleagues 
considered that. He decided we could consider the complaint. Were required  to keep 
jurisdiction under review  until a final decision  is issued. Ive considered what  my colleague 
said and I agree that the complaint is one we can investigate.  
In looking at the merits of the complaint Ive taken particular account of Mrs Bs comments  in 
response to the adjudicators view and why she didnt think  FLWMs offer was sufficient.  
First, I think FLWMs role was limited to the property transaction.  Mrs Bs pointed to the 
minutes of the trustees meeting on 1 October 2014  which took place at FLWMs office.  It 
seems that the members  generally felt they lacked information about their benefits, fund 
values and respective  shares in the property and that they were concerned they hadnt 
perhaps been well served  by the adviser on record for the plan. FLWM agreed (subject to 
the members, including Mrs B, signing a letter  of authority)  to get information from the SIPP  
provider. And FLWM  replaced the previous  adviser on the plan. 
I dont think that sort of general information gathering activity is a regulated activity. There 
was no specific agreement between  Mrs B that it would  provide her with advice relating to 
her SIPP or her share  of the property. In the absence  of that sort of agreement  FLWMs  role 
was confined to acting for Mrs B and others on the particular transaction   the sale and 
purchase of shares  in the property. 
Appointing a single adviser to deal with the transaction on the basis that all parties were in 
agreement and had a common aim in adjusting the ownership of the property may have 
seemed sensible  and cost effective.  But differences  could later arise  and interests  diverge. 
Because FLWM was acting for both buyers and sellers there was potentially  a conflict of 
interest. FLWM  needed to recognise  that. FLWM had to treat Mrs B, its customer,  fairly  and 
that included properly managing any conflicts of interest, including those between her and 
other clients. It seems that Mrs B raised with FLWM  her concerns about a potential conflict  
and received an assurance  that shed be treated professionally.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there were shortcomings in how FLWM  treated Mrs B 
alongside FLWMs other clients involved as part of the same transaction. In particular, 
FLWM failed to share the new (and significantly lower) valuation with Mrs B. 
Because she didnt  see the valuation Mrs B was understandably very disappointed  with what 
she got for her share in the property and which meant that the value of her pension fund was 
much less than shed thought from the statements shed received. But it seems  the value of 
the property was overstated in the statements. Thats unfortunate and created expectations 
as to what would be realised if the property or a share in it was sold.  The payment of £750 is 
to compensate Mrs B for the disappointment shes suffered  and which could have been 
avoided if the valuation had been  shared  and shed been made aware  earlier of the true 
market value of the property.
But the property  was independently valued  (by two different surveyors who valued the 
property at the same amount). Theres no suggestion that the valuation  was other than a 
correct, up to date, market value. (Even if that was the case that wouldnt be something we 
could look into.) I dont  think  its the case that the buyers benefited from the lower  price. 
They paid less than they might have  anticipated  (and by the same  token  Mrs B got less than 
she was expecting) but the property wasnt sold at an undervalue  the buyers paid what  it 
Ref: DRN94838084was worth and Mrs B received fair value for her share of the property. So I dont think  the 
buyers have benefited or that Mrs B has lost out financially as such. 
But Mrs B has said that she wouldnt have gone ahead if shed known that the property had 
been valued at a lot less than shed thought. I have to decide that sort of issue  what  might 
have happened  if things had been done  differently  on the balance  of probabilities, that is 
what I think is likely to have happened   taking into account such  evidence  as may be 
available and without  using the benefit of hindsight. 
I dont regard what Mrs B has said as other than a genuine belief as at to what  shed have 
done. But, on balance,  and looking at her then situation, I dont think  I can say she wouldnt 
have gone ahead if shed have been  aware  of the lower valuation. All in all I think shed 
probably have  come  to terms with the lower price  and gone  ahead with the sale as planned. 
I note what Mrs B has said about  continuing  to receive rental income. But shed decided  that 
she wanted to sell her share  in the property and she knew  that shed be giving up that rental  
income. She was no longer working for the company that was renting the property. I dont 
see there was any real benefit  to her in retaining a share in a property let to a company she 
no longer had any interest in (other than as a tenant) and when she had no knowledge of 
and no control over its finances  or future plans. 
And I note what Mrs B has said about the company being in the process of being  sold to a 
much larger entity. But I dont see that she should have been told about that. She was no 
longer involved  with or employed by the company. It was the tenant of a property that she 
had a share in. But it didnt  have  to share information about its business  and future plans 
with her.  
Mrs B may have found  that sort of information  as useful  I can see shed be interested in 
the companys  continued ability to pay the rent and issues such as whether it was likely to 
remain in the property (and so avoid the need  to find a replacement tenant). But I dont think 
she had a right to that sort of commercially sensitive business information.  So her decision 
would have been based on what she knew at the time. All in all I think shed still have gone 
ahead with the sale of her share  of the property. 
Mrs B suggests that her loss is some £48.849.19. Thats based on (and leaving aside the 
lost rental  income) the lower property valuation. I dont see thats a loss as such or that 
FLWM is responsible. Rather its a reflection of the fact that the property (and so Mrs Bs 
fund) wasnt worth as much  as the statements indicated and Mrs B had hoped. As Ive said 
theres nothing to suggest that the property was actually worth  more. Nor can it be assumed 
that, if Mrs B hadnt sold her share  when  she did, shed later have been  able to sell at a 
higher price.  
In the light of my findings I agree that a payment  of £750 plus a refund of the costs 
associated with the transaction is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
Future Life Wealth Management Limited  is prepared  to offer Mrs B 750 in recognition  of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of the matter. In addition  it will 
refund the costs  associated with the transaction. 
Ref: DRN94838085So my decision is that Future Life Wealth Management Limited  should  pay £750 to Mrs B 
and make that refund to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9483808