K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has recorded a default  on her credit  file unfairly. To 
settle matters shed like the default removing.
background
Miss M and Mr D have a joint account with Lloyds. Its not disputed  that Mr D used the 
overdraft on the joint account for business  purposes  without Miss Ms consent. Lloyds 
passed the account to its collection agent as the overdraft wasnt  repaid  and a default was 
applied to Miss Ms and Mr Ds credit files.
Miss M complained to Lloyds and said this was unfair because  Mr D had used the overdraft 
without informing her. So she says she shouldnt  be responsible for the debt and the default  
shouldnt have been applied to her.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint. It said that as the account was a joint account  Miss M 
was aware of the position of the account as she was the last person to withdraw  funds from 
it. Itd sent numerous  letters confirming the position with the account and itd given a warning 
in January 2018 that the account would be closed if it wasnt  brought up to date.
Miss M remained  unhappy with Lloyds  response so she brought  her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly.
The investigator could  see the account had been  in overdraft  for a number of years  and 
statements had been sent to Miss M and Mr D to update  them. Miss M was a joint account 
holder, so the investigator thought Miss M had the information available  to inform  her how 
the account was being  used.
The investigator had looked at the template wording of the letter Lloyds sent in January 
2018. The letter explained  that the account would be closed within two months if a payment 
wasnt made to clear the full balance of the arrears or if a payment  arrangement wasnt  
made. The letter also explained that Lloyds could register a default and instruct  a debt 
collection agency to recover the debt if payment wasnt made .
But neither  Miss M nor Mr D had taken  any steps  to repay  the debt or to contact  Lloyds  
after the formal  demand  was issued.  So she didnt think it was unfair that Lloyds applied a 
default to both of them  as joint account  holders because they are jointly and severally  liable 
for the actions taken  on that account by either  of them.
Miss M is unhappy with the investigators view.  She says Lloyds was aware of her situation 
in 2017 and thinks it should  have  done  more to help.
In response to Miss Ms further  comments, the investigator could see that Miss M called 
Lloyds in mid June  2018 and early July 2018  to explain her circumstances, but these were 
after the default had been applied.
The investigator could  see that Miss M called Lloyds in June 2017. In this call, Miss M said 
she didnt want to enter into any payment plan as she didnt want  her credit file to be 
affected. Miss M said the overdrafts were Mr Ds and not hers.  And Lloyds said it could 
possibly look at having her name removed once the accounts were in order.
Ref: DRN90577942Miss M also called Lloyds in September 2017. In this call Miss M wanted to know the best 
way to bring her account up to date. Lloyds  explained that if there was a payment plan 
interest and charges would be frozen. But Miss M was concerned about the impact this 
would have on her credit file. The call notes record that Miss M didnt have the time to 
discuss a payment plan.  So it was left that Miss M would ask Mr D to call regarding the 
account. Miss M told Lloyds she wanted to look at removing her name  but said Mr D would 
call to discuss the account.
The investigator acknowledged that things  had been difficult for Miss M. She realised that 
Mr D had told Miss M hed make arrangements to pay the amount due, but he didnt. But as 
a joint account  holder  Mr D and Miss M were  jointly and severally liable for the activity on the 
account. Lloyds  made  them aware a default  would be applied  if no action was taken on the 
account  and it wasnt just for Mr D to take this action.
Miss M thinks  Lloyds should  have  done  more when  Mr D never called Lloyds back  to make 
an arrangement as he said he would. The investigator considered  this but she didnt think it 
was for Lloyds to chase  this up when Mr D failed to call.
The investigator didnt  think Lloyds could have done anything  more. She could see Lloyds 
had discussed  setting up a payment plan or passing  the account to recoveries  neither of 
which Miss M wanted due to her concerns about  the impact on her credit  file. Lloyds had 
also discussed removing  her name once the account was brought  into order  and it explained 
that if Miss M wanted to obtain a new loan to repay the overdraft shed have  to go to a 
branch to discuss this.
Miss M remains  unhappy so shes asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that things have  been very difficult for Miss M and Im sympathetic to the position  
she finds herself in. I can see why Miss M considers it unfair that a default has been 
registered against her credit file for a debt that was incurred by Mr D without her consent. 
But my role is to look at whether Miss M has been  treated  fairly  by Lloyds  and I believe it 
has. Im sorry to disappoint  Miss M but Im afraid I have no better news  for her.
Miss M and Mr D have a joint account with Lloyds. This means  they are jointly and severally 
liable for the transactions  made by either of them on the account  even though  Mr D caused 
the account to become overdrawn.
I can see that statements  were addressed to both of them to update them  on the way the 
account was being used.  So Miss M had the opportunity to know how the account  was being 
used. And I can see she made  some  transactions using the account.
Ive also seen the template formal demand letter sent by Lloyds in January 2018. This 
explained that the account would be closed within two months  if a payment wasnt made  to 
clear the full balance  of the arrears or if a payment arrangement wasnt made. The letter  
also explained  that Lloyds  might registe r a default and instruct a debt collection 
agency to recover the debt if payment  wasnt  made.
Ref: DRN90577943I cant  see that Miss M or Mr D took any steps  to repay  the debt and they didnt  contact  
Lloyds  until after the default  had been  applied.  So I cant  say it was unfair  that Lloyds  
applied  a default  to both of them  as joint account holders - because they are jointly and 
severally liable for the actions taken on that account by either of them.
I dont agree that Lloyds didnt try to help. Miss M made calls to Lloyds in June and 
September 2017. Ive listened  to those calls. In the June 2017 call, the call handler  
discussed setting  up a payment plan or transferring  the account to recoveries but Miss M 
didnt want to do this because of the impact on her credit file. Miss Ms preferred option was 
to obtain a new loan to consolidate her debts and the call handler explained that Miss M 
would need to discuss this in branch.
The call handler also discussed  the possibility of Miss Ms name being removed from the 
account but again the call handler explained that Miss M and Mr D would need to go to their 
branch to discuss this. It was left that Miss M would speak to Mr D about setting up a 
repayment plan.  But when Mr D failed to call to discuss  this I dont agree that Lloyds  should  
have done more to follow this up Miss M or Mr D. And there was no suggestion in these calls 
that there  was any sort of dispute between Miss M and Mr D.
I realise this is going to be a huge disappointment for Miss M but it brings to an end what  we, 
as an informal dispute resolution service,  can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9057794