K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mrs and Mr B took out in 2004. The loan was 
originally taken out with Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc, but was transferred in 2016 to a 
business Ill call E. Some of the issues Ms M has raised relate  to things that have happened 
since E took over the loan, and weve explained  that theyd need to be dealt with separately 
in a different complaint against E.
The complaint about Firstplus is that it suppressed the accrual of interest on the outstanding  
loan balance  from June  2011 without telling Mrs and Mr B.
background 
Our investigator concluded that the suppression  of interest removed the compounding effect 
of interest on interest, meaning Mrs and Mr B were  better off overall than they would  have 
been if Firstplus  hadnt done it. But she also thought  Firstplus  had failed to keep 
Mrs and Mr B properly  informed, and said it should pay them compensation (£200) for the 
shock of finding  out late in the day that they owed much more than theyd previously been 
led to believe.
Firstplus agreed to pay the recommended  award,  but Mrs and Mr B asked  for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They say we havent properly  taken account  of a court 
order from 2011 which specified how much they owed. They believe interest  shouldnt  have 
been charged after that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with Mrs and Mr Bs comments about  the court order. The contractual starting 
position is that a debt attracts interest  until it is repaid; if a court says interest should stop, 
then it should  stop. Ive looked at the court order from 2011, and although it is a money 
judgement (i.e. it states how much the debt is as at the date of the order)  it is silent on the 
question of future interest.
Its not for me to second-guess whether the court  intended to say something  it hasnt  said; 
only the court itself could decide  that, so Mrs and Mr B would need to back to the court  and 
ask it to clarify the point. Insofar as the court order doesnt say interest should be stopped,  
then I must conclude that the contractual position  prevails.
Mrs and Mr Bs loan is unregulated, but the business that provided it is regulated. So its 
subject to the regulators high-level  principles  on how to behave towards consumers. Two of 
those principles are relevant here:
principle six, which  requires Firstplus  to pay due regard to Mr and Mrs Bs interests and 
treat them fairly; and
principle seven, which requires  Firstplus to pay regard to Mr and Mrs Bs information 
needs and communicate  in way thats clear,  fair and not mis-leading.
Im not persuaded the decision  to suppress  interest  breached either principle. Ultimately, it 
meant Mrs and Mr B were  charged  less interest  than she would have been otherwise. On 
Ref: DRN99982612the issue of whether Firstplus kept Mrs and Mr B informed, Ive noted  that it told them  about  
the suppression  of interest in a final response on an earlier  complaint  in 2016. 
So whilst I appreciate  the discovery  of how much they still owed came as a shock  to 
Mrs and Mr B, it shouldnt  have come as a complete  surprise. Nonetheless, I agree that an 
award of compensation is warranted,  and in all the circumstances,  £200  is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, I 
direct Firstplus Financial Group  Plc to pay Mrs and Mr B £200 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9998261