K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about  the way American Express Services  Europe Limited (AMEX) 
handled a claim  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) after payments 
were made by credit card to a business that helps  with visa applications. 
Ms S has been represented throughout but, to make things simpler, Ill mainly refer to Ms S. 
background
An additional  cardholder  under Ms Ss credit  card account made  four payments in 2011  to a 
business that helps with visa applications,  which Ill call G. At the time, the additional 
cardholder wasnt happy with the service  provided by G and contacted AMEX, on behalf of 
Ms S  the account  holder  to make a claim under section 75. AMEX responded to the 
claim but didnt uphold it. It requested further  information but didnt receive a response  from 
Ms S (or the additional cardholder). 
In 2018, Ms S raised a formal complaint with AMEX to let it know she was not happy that her 
section 75 claim was declined in 2011. AMEX  decided  to look into the claim again. In 
summary, it said that the claim related to transactions that were very old so could not be 
investigated further. It also referred  to the 2011 claim that it had looked into, which  it had 
also declined. 
Ms S wasnt happy with the response, so asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the necessary 
relationship for a claim to be considered under section  75 didnt exist. This is because Ms S 
holds the credit card account, but the claim was in relation to something bought by the 
additional cardholder  that had nothing to do with Ms S. 
Ms S didnt agree. In summary, shes thinks that our service should do more to help her. She 
didnt think wed considered all the evidence available. And she thought that G was acting 
fraudulently.  
Ive issued a jurisdiction decision, setting  out which issues I thought we could and couldnt 
look at. I wont repeat my reasons here because Ive already explained these findings to the 
relevant parties  in my provisional decision  and jurisdiction decision. 
This final decision looks at the part of the complaint that I have determined we have the 
power to look into. With regards to the merits of the complaint,  I said in my provisional 
decision:
section 75 claim
When considering  Ms Ss complaint, Ive thought about how AMEX handled the claim while  
taking into account  the relevant law. In this case,  what I have to decide is whether AMEX  
acted fairly  in declining the section 75 claim. 
Section 75 makes the creditor (in this case AMEX)  jointly liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods  or services financed by the credit. However, 
the creditor is only liable under certain  conditions. One of those conditions is that there 
needs to be a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier. 
Ref: DRN92864052This means  the person  who paid for the goods  or services (the debtor) should  have  a direct 
relationship with the company that supplied the goods or services (the supplier), as well as 
with the credit card company (the creditor).  
The CCA defines debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit  
agreement. In this case, the additional  cardholder paid for the services for himself,  but Ms S 
is considered to be the debtor as she entered into the consumer credit agreement  with 
AMEX and is therefore liable to make  the finance repayments to it. 
The visa that was being arranged by G was solely for the additional cardholder. The 
additional cardholder  has confirmed this. And all the paperwork and correspondence that 
Ive seen from G is only in the additional  cardholders name. Ms S didnt enter  into the 
contract with G so she doesnt have a relationship with it. The nature of the service would 
suggest it was very specific  to the additional cardholder.  And I cannot  see how it would 
relate to the joint affairs  of Ms S. So in the circumstances, I think  the additional cardholder 
was the sole contracting  party with G. 
Taking into account my reasoning above, Im not persuaded  the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangement exists for a valid claim against AMEX  under section  75. 
Therefore, for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded AMEX acted unfairly when 
turning down the section 75 claim.  So I dont  propose to direct  it to take any action. 
AMEX did not respond to the provisional decision.  Ms S didnt add anything  further  for me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been given anything new to consider,  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 12 April 2019. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9286405