K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc changed the agreement they had with 
him on repaying an overdraft and reported  negative information on his credit file. 
He wants compensation  for the extra interest he had to pay in taking out a loan to pay off the 
overdraft and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Background
In August  2018,  RBS made  the decision to close Mr Ls account  with them. At that time,  he 
had an overdraft of around £13,200.  He was given 60 days  to repay  this. 
Mr L made an arrangement to pay this off at around £1,100 per month. He questioned if this 
would affect his credit file and was clearly told that no adverse data would be reported  as he 
had come to an agreement to clear  his debt. 
Mr L stuck to this arrangement but he then discovered that RBS had recorded adverse data 
on his credit file. Mr L raised  a complaint.
RBS wrote to him on 3 April 2019  with their decision  on the complaint. They  agreed that they 
had given him the wrong information  when they told him that adverse data wouldnt be 
recorded. They said that, after they had transferred  the account to their credit management 
services, Mr Ls credit  file would report payments made for three months and then register  a 
default if the full sum hadnt been paid off. This was due to be registered in March  2019 but, 
as the Credit Reference Agencies dont report until the following month,  it would show at the 
end of April 2019.  
RBS said that, because Mr L had been misadvised,  they would request that adverse data 
was removed and Mr Ls account reported  as satisfactory on the 14 November 2018  if he 
cleared his balance by 3 May 2019. 
They also offered him £100 compensation for the upset and confusion  caused by the 
incorrect advice. 
Mr L wasnt happy with this outcome so he came to us. 
Our investigator found that RBS has acted  fairly  and reasonably. Mr L had cleared the 
balance by 3 May 2019 and RBS had removed the adverse  information  from the credit  file. 
He thought that the £100 offered was fair. 
Mr L didnt agree with this decision. He thought that, in order  to be put back into the position 
that he wouldve  been in if the incorrect advice hadnt been  given, RBS shouldve:
stuck to the arrangement that they made with him and not reported  any adverse data 
whilst he was paying £1,100 per month;
paid him the extra  interest that he had to pay because he borrowed off his credit card 
to pay back the overdraft earlier than he thought he needed to;
paid him £500  compensation.  
The complaint has now come to me. 
Ref: DRN93072842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr L wont be happy with my decision.  I think that RBS have acted fairly and 
reasonably in this matter.  I will explain why. 
RBS has admitted that they gave the incorrect advice to Mr L when they entered  into a 
repayment plan with him. I then aim to put Mr L in the position he wouldve been in had the 
incorrect advice not been given. 
Mr Ls argument is that RBS should  give him the interest that he has been charged on his 
credit card. I think his reasoning is that he wouldnt have  had to borrow on his credit  card if 
RBS had stuck to the agreement made  with him. Although he did have to borrow on his 
credit card, I dont think it follows that to put him back to the position  he wouldve been  in had 
he not got the incorrect information is to say that the agreement should be stuck to without 
any adverse data being recorded. 
The incorrect information was that adverse data wouldnt be recorded. So, if this was 
incorrect, RBS are entitled to put this right. 
The correct  position  would be for Mr L to owe the overdraft of around £13,200. If he wanted 
to enter  into a repayment plan to pay this off at £1,100, then he could but adverse data 
would be recorded  on his credit file. He would also have had the choice  to pay off the 
overdraft without any adverse information  being recorded. 
Mr L did choose to pay off the full balance owed. I note that Mr L argues that he wouldve got 
a better  loan if he had been given more notice. But, Ive seen nothing to suggest  that this 
wouldve been the case so I cant agree with this point.
In order to put Mr L back to position that he wouldve been  in had he paid off this balance 
earlier, I think RBS did the right thing in amending  his credit  file to show  the debt had been  
settled in November  2018 with no adverse data showing.
I also think that the £100 compensation  offered  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I know that this isnt the outcome that Mr L hoped for. I hope that I have clearly explained 
why Ive made this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, other than pay £100  to Mr L if it hasnt already been paid, I 
dont require The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93072843
Ref: DRN9307284