K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  Assurant General  Insurance Limited unfairly declined her claim after her 
bike was stolen.
background
Miss B has a bicycle  insurance  policy underwritten by Assurant General Insurance  that 
covers her in the event  of theft and accidental damage.
In July 2018 Miss B says she locked her bike to a fence outside her property. She says she 
bought the bike lock in January  2018 after a wheel from her previous bike had been stolen 
from the same location. Assurant General  Insurance  says Miss B heard a loud noise and 
when she looked  out of her window she saw a man leaving  with her bike. Miss B says the 
lock she bought had been broken.  She made a claim  on her policy.
Assurant General Insurance looked  into Miss Bs claim and declined it. Assurant General 
Insurance said that the bike would only have been  covered if it had been  locked to an 
immoveable object by an approved lock. Assurant  General Insurance said that the wooden  
fence post to which Miss B had locked her bike wasnt  an immoveable object. Assurant 
General Insurance also said that Miss B hadnt  taken reasonable care as shed left her bike 
in the same location as the previous theft.  Miss B didnt  agree and so complained  to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Bs complaint and agreed  that Assurant General 
Insurance hadnt dealt with the claim fairly.  She didnt agree  that the wooden fence wasnt an 
immoveable object because a determined thief might be able to break the fence using 
considerable force, nor did she agree that there  was evidence the fence had been broken. 
Nor did she think Miss B had failed to take reasonable care given that she had bought a 
better lock after the wheel from her previous bike was stolen   the new lock allowed  her to 
secure the wheels  too. So she recommended  that Assurant General Insurance reassess the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. Miss B accepted. Assurant General 
Insurance didnt  agree  with our investigators  recommendations saying that photographs of 
the fence show  the back  slats had been cracked  suggesting that the fence post had been  
broken away from the supporting slats and Miss Bs bike had been lifted  over the post and 
stolen. Assurant General  Insurance  also didnt  agree that Miss B had taken reasonable care 
given that shed left her bike in the same  place as her bike which had a wheel stolen. So Ive 
been asked to consider this complaint.
Ref: DRN95950632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has been the victim of two thefts  a wheel from her previous bike and now her new 
bike. Im satisfied that Miss B bought a new lock after the wheel from her previous bike was 
stolen. The lock she bought was a higher  specification than her previous  one and no-one  is 
disputing that it meets the standards set out in her policy. Given the Assurant General 
Insurance paid out on the previous claim  albeit  without  having looked at it in any real detail 
 I dont think I can say Miss B, having bought in a better lock, failed to take reasonable care 
even though she left her bike in the same  location. So the only issue  I have to decide is 
whether or not Assurant General Insurance acted unfairly when it declined Miss Bs claim on 
the grounds that her bike wasnt locked to an immoveable object.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Bs policy define an immoveable  object as:
any solid object fixed in or on to concrete  or stone, which  is not capable  of being 
undone, removed  with, or lifted  over / under the Bicycle
Ive seen a photo of the wooden post to which Miss B locked her bicycle. Im satisfied  that 
the wooden post is a solid object  and that its fixed in concrete at the bottom. I dont agree 
with Assurant General  Insurance that the photo  shows the fence was broken by the person 
who stole the bike. Miss B has said that the new lock she bought had been broken  and 
that might  explain the loud noise she heard.
I think, given that Miss Bs bike was stolen and there is no evidence  that the fence was 
broken but evidence that the lock was broken, that Assurant General Insurance didnt act 
fairly when  it declined Miss Bs claim on the grounds that it hadnt been locked to an 
immoveable object as it looks like the thief broke  her lock. So I agree with our investigator 
that Assurant General  Insurance should  re-assess Miss Bs claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Assurant General Insurance  Limited to re-assess Miss Bs 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9595063