K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the service shes received from Santander UK Plc.
background
In November 2018 Ms M deposited a cheque  for £3,000 into her current account with 
Santander. A few days later she found she was unable to access  her online banking,  so on 
21 November 2018 she contacted Santander.
Ms M spoke to a member of Santanders  security team who asked her some  questions in 
relation to the cheque.  Ms M explained she had been contacted by a market  research 
company S and that the money  was for use in doing mystery shopping at the Post Office.  
Santanders agent explained they had concerns about the authenticity  of the cheque  shed 
paid in  so her account had been frozen  whilst they investigated. The agent also explained 
Ms M would only be able to access money  that had come from wages or benefits and that 
this would need to be done  in a branch with photo identification. Ms M was very unhappy 
with this call. She feels the agent  was incredibly rude and treated her like a criminal.
In the following days Ms M provided  Santander  with the emails  shed been sent by S. She 
also discovered that a business account  she was linked to had also been frozen. Ms M says 
this caused her a huge amount of embarrassment  and could have resulted in her losing her 
job. She also says she felt humiliated when withdrawing some  cash  in branch. 
On 27 November 2018, Santander completed their investigation and unblocked Ms Ms 
accounts as they accepted Ms M had been tricked  by S. They  also responded to the 
concerns Ms M had raised.  In summary they explained that they had to freeze the accounts 
whilst they investigated  and that this wasnt intended to cause Ms M distress. They agreed 
the initial call with the security team could have  been handled better and offered £60 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Ms M didnt accept this. She says Santander  should have used common  sense and it should 
have been obvious from her account that she wasnt  a fraudster. So she referred her 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He concluded 
Santander had treated  Ms M fairly and that the offer of £60 was fair. So he didnt 
recommend that they needed  to do more. 
As she still disagrees, Ms M has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying  that having  listened  to the calls between Ms M and Santander  I 
accept that Ms M was unaware the cheque she presented wasnt  genuine  and I dont think  
shes acted dishonestly in any way. I also accept that this has been a very upsetting time for 
Ms M and has had quite  an impact  on her. 
the accounts being frozen
Ref: DRN98108562Santander have  various legal and regulatory  responsibilities in managing their customers  
money. These include complying with rules and regulations covering the prevention of 
money laundering and being alert to fraudulent activity  on their customers accounts. Within 
reason it is for Santander to decide  their own procedures to ensure they comply with the 
rules and regulations.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt the industry regulator and its not my role to 
comment on how they decide to do that. My role is to instead consider the circumstances of 
Ms Ms complaint and decide whether or not I think shes been treated fairly. 
I dont think it is inherently  unfair  or unreasonable for Santander to freeze accounts whilst 
they investigate  their concerns. And having  been frozen  on 20 November, Ms Ms accounts 
were returned to normal on 27 November. I dont think this is an unreasonably long time for 
Santander to complete  their investigation,  particularly as it included a weekend.  
I understand Ms M was unhappy  at not being asked to send in the email  evidence from S 
during her initial call on 21 November 2018.  But having listened to that call, it appears Ms M 
terminated the call with the agent.  So I dont think it would be fair to hold Santander 
responsible for that information not being provided during that call. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander treated Ms M as they would  any other customer  in similar  
circumstances and I dont  think this is unfair. 
the initial call
Ive listened carefully  to the initial call with the security  team  which Ms M is particularly 
unhappy about. Santander accept  the call could have been  handled  better and have offered 
£60 as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think the call handler was rude to Ms M or treated her 
disrespectfully. There was however, an occasion where the call handler spoke over Ms M. 
Im satisfied the £60 Santander have offered is fair. So I wont be asking them  to increase 
this amount.
summary
Looking at this complaint  as a whole, I dont  think  Santander need to do more  than theyve 
already offered. That isnt to say I underestimate  the impact  of all of this on Ms M. But the 
primary cause  of the distress and inconvenience  she experienced was the scammer who 
tricked her into presenting  a fraudulent cheque.  Whilst Ms M herself obviously isnt at fault 
for this, neither are Santander.  
I have to isolate,  as far as is possible,  the impact of any acts or omissions that Santander 
are responsible for. And in that context, Im satisfied the £60 offered is fair. I understand 
Ms M declined this amount as she found  it insulting. If Ms M would like to accept this amount 
I suggest she contacts  Santander  to arrange this. And although I understand Ms M has now 
closed her accounts, I would still expect Santander to honour  their offer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN98108563Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9810856