K820x#14complaint
Mr R2, as representative  of the estates of his parents, Mr R1 and Mrs R, complains that The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold them whole-of-life policies on the 
basis that they would fully cover  funeral costs.
background
Mr R1 and Mrs R each had whole-of-life policies that they took out through The Co-operative  
Insurance Society, which are now administered by Royal London. They  took them  out 
believing that they would  cover the costs  of their funerals when they passed away.
Mr R1 had a policy that he started  in 1984.  But, when he sadly  passed away in 2011, the 
proceeds of the policy werent enough  to cover the full cost of a funeral.
Mrs R had two policies,  one that was also taken  out in 1984,  and in 1996. But, when she 
passed away in 2017, her family  found they didnt cover the funeral costs.
Mr R2 complained as he felt the policies had been  mis-represented to his parents as theyd 
always said their funeral costs would  be covered  with no extra expense for their family to 
meet.
Royal London said this type of whole-of-life policy doesnt guarantee to pay for a funeral, and 
the amount paid out depends on the chosen  premium; the sum assured; the policy  type, the 
fund performance and when someone dies. It said the only guarantees are that the original 
sum assured plus any bonuses are paid out on death, provided  that the premiums are up to 
date. It said Mr R1 and Mrs R had been provided  with policy  documents  and the terms and 
conditions, and had the opportunity to cancel the policies if they were unhappy with these.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He said 
the policies from 1984 were  taken out at a time when there  were  no requirements for Co-
operative Insurance Society to give advice, or to provide a written report of the suitability of a 
product and so there was limited available information other than the applications for the 
plans. But the adjudicator  could see no indication that the intention of either policy was 
specifically to either contribute towards or to pay for funeral  costs.
He looked at the details  from when Mrs R had been  sold her policy in 1996, and these 
showed she wanted a savings plan which would help to pay her funeral costs. But he 
couldnt see anything  to confirm any of the policies were sold to cover the full expense  of a 
funeral, the costs  of which have increased over time since  the policies started.
.
Mr R2 didnt accept the adjudicators findings  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  that Mr R2 has found  that the whole-of-life policies havent fulfilled what  his 
parents wanted  or believed. I can understand this will have  caused  a great deal of upset 
particularly as they didnt want to leave  their family with funeral costs to pay.
Ref: DRN92141792Ive carefully reviewed the limited documentation  that remains from when they took out their 
policies in 1984, and that from when Mrs R started  her additional  policy in 1996.  And Im 
afraid that there  isnt anything to indicate  to me that the policies  provided  any form of 
guarantee that the full cost of a funeral would be met when  it was needed.
Mrs R took out her second  policy in 1996 to supplement the one from 1984,  and this 
wouldve been to help towards  funeral costs.  The documentation from 1996 indicates to me 
that the advisor met with both Mr R1 and Mrs R and looked to meet  their objective of 
providing a plan for funeral expenses, suggesting they understood the 1984 policies wouldnt 
achieve what they wanted by themselves.
The aim of the whole-of-life policies was to provide a lump sum payable when they passed 
away, and its clear  that Mr R1 and Mrs Rs intention was that this would used to pay 
towards funeral  expenses. But I dont think the whole-of-life policies gave a guarantee that 
all of these expenses would be covered  when  they were needed. 
Taking everything into account,  and although  I appreciate that my decision  will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr R2, I dont think that Royal London should be required to pay further  
remuneration to the estates of Mr R1 and Mrs R. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R2, as 
representative of the estates of Mr R1 and Mrs R, to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9214179