K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about information Equifax Limited gave him about searches made on his 
credit file.
background
On 4 March 2019 Mr C asked Equifax to clarify whether his bank, who Ill refer to as H, had 
recorded a search  on his credit file. Mr C didnt have an Equifax report  so he was advised to 
obtain one as Equifax wouldnt be able to see what information was recorded about  him 
without one.
On 7 March Mr C spoke to Equifax who reviewed his credit report  and informed  him that no 
searches had been carried out by H. It subsequently confirmed this by email. But on 13 
March Mr C received a letter from Equifax which said I can confirm  that theres  search from 
H appearing on your credit report. Equifax said this letter contained an error as it had 
omitted the word no before  the word search.  
Mr C complained to Equifax and, based on the content of its letter,  he also pursued a 
complaint with H because he believed that it had searched his credit file. Mr C said he was 
caused inconvenience and distress as a result of having  to discuss this matter over the 
telephone with both H and Equifax. He said he also had to attend a branch to discuss his 
concerns with H, which he found difficult  due to him being a wheelchair  user.  He also said he 
had had to change banks due to Equifaxs  error as H had closed his bank account  following 
the complaint  he had made.
Equifax acknowledged the error  in its letter to Mr C and offered to compensate  him in the 
sum of £20, which was subsequently paid. But Mr C said he thought  Equifax had offered to 
pay him £250 to resolve his complaint instead. Equifax told Mr C that it hadnt offered him 
£250 compensation and that the £20 it had paid fairly  recognised the impact its mistake had 
caused. But it said it was prepared to revisit the issue of compensation if Mr C provided 
evidence to show any additional distress and inconvenience it hadnt already considered.  
But Mr C wasnt  happy with Equifaxs response  to his complaint. So he referred  it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into it and, while they empathised  with Mr C, they didnt 
think Equifax needed  to do anything more here. They thought that £20 compensation  was 
appropriate and fair. But Mr C disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred  to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything  that Mr C 
and Equifax have  said, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with my conclusions  so Ill explain why 
I wont be asking Equifax to do anything else.
Having seen a copy of Mr Cs credit report its clear that H didnt  undertake any searches on 
his credit file. So the information Equifax initially  gave Mr C on 7 March 2019 over the 
telephone and via email  was correct. But the correspondence Equifax sent him six days later 
was ambiguous about this issue. And I appreciate that this wouldve  most likely caused Mr C 
Ref: DRN90330212confusion and concern having  previously been told by Equifax that no searches had been 
carried out by H. 
Equifax has already accepted it made an error in its correspondence of 13 March  2019. So, 
the issue for me to determine  here is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put 
things right. In thinking about  this, Ive considered things  from both sides.  
I realise that it must  have been frustrating  and inconvenient for Mr C to have received the 
letter he did from Equifax.  But I think that, once Equifax  became aware of its error, it acted 
fairly and reasonably in accepting responsibility.  I say this because  this issue  was resolved 
with Equifax in one phone call. And, within a week of sending this letter  to Mr C, Equifax had 
corrected its mistake and paid compensation to apologise for what had happened. 
Mr C says hes been caused inconvenience  because the content of Equifaxs letter led to 
him raising  a compliant with H. But I think if Mr C had been  confused  or unsure about  
whether H had in fact undertaken  searches  on his account as a result of this 
correspondence he couldve contacted Equifax before making  a complaint to H. And I think  
this wouldve  been a reasonable step for him to take given that the content of Equifaxs letter 
appeared to conflict  with the information he had been given over the telephone and by email.   
Mr C has said that as a result of the complaint he pursued with H it had decided to close  his 
bank account.  So, he had to change banks.  I can see that when Mr C made Equifax aware  
of this it responded by asking him to provide evidence so it could consider whether further 
compensation should be paid. I think it was reasonable for Equifax to ask for further  
evidence from Mr C. And I believe  that its response  demonstrated that it was prepared to 
revisit its offer to put matters right if it was presented with evidence showing the extent of the 
inconvenience and any financial impact  its error  had caused Mr C.
I understand that Mr C declined to provide evidence that H were  closing his bank account. 
And, in view of this, Equifax didnt increase the compensation award  it was prepared to pay 
to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Im not persuaded this was unfair. I say this because  Mr C was 
given the opportunity to provide further  information  if he wanted to and it was clear that in its 
absence Equifax couldnt increase its compensation offer.  
Equifax offered Mr C £20 to compensate him for the impact this mistake  had. Its clear he 
dont think this adequately reflects his inconvenience and experience. But Im satisfied that 
whats been offered  is fair to compensate Mr C for the worry and trouble  he was caused  by 
Equifaxs mistake.  I say this because I havent seen any evidence  that Mr C lost out 
financially as a result  of what happened. Mr C said this error led H to close his bank account 
but that hasnt  happened.  So he wasnt forced to change his bank account because  of the 
error Equifax made. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Equifax to pay 
compensation for something that didnt happen.
Mr C told our service  that his health has declined as a result of Equifaxs mistake.  But, as 
our investigator has already explained to Mr C in order for our service  to say that Equifax 
has been responsible for any deterioration in his health a causative  link would need to be 
established. This is because our service has to award compensation on what actually 
happened. I havent seen  any evidence that Mr Cs health has worsened as a direct 
consequence of the mistake  that Equifax made. So, I cant fairly tell Equifax to increase the 
compensation its already paid Mr C here.  
Ref: DRN90330213Mr C said he was offered £250  to resolve  his complaint. But having  carefully  listened  to the 
telephone call in which compensation was discussed theres no mention of £250  being 
offered to Mr C. What I can hear is the Equifax agent clearly offering Mr C £20, which  he 
accepted. He provided his card details to Equifax  so it could credit that sum to him. I havent  
heard anything to persuade me that Equifax offered anything other than £20 to resolve  this 
complaint. And, based on the telephone recording,  Im satisfied  that Mr C understood that 
Equifax were  prepared  to pay him £20 as an apology.
I appreciate that Mr C feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But I think Equifax has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done  all it can to resolve this dispute.  Its already paid £20 to settle this complaint 
and I think this is a reasonable amount that reflects the impact  this mistake has had on Mr C. 
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that Equifax acted fairly and reasonably  and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9033021