K820x#14complaint
Ms I says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her two payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policies (I 
mostly referred to the two policies  as the policy where appropriate). 
background and summary to complaint
Ms I bought  the first policy in 1999 after taking out a mortgage in 1990.  Ms Is recollection  is 
that she applied  for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms I for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £334.84 a month towards  Ms Is mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £19.38  a month.  
Ms I took a further  advance and PPI policy in 2002  in branch. Again, the policy  provided 
cover for Ms I for accident,  sickness  and unemployment subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £147.63  per month towards the mortgage at a cost of £5.00 
per month. It would also make an additional payment of £3.00  for every £1,000 Ms I had 
borrowed.
At the time of both the sales, Ms I was a company director  of a carpet and flooring business. 
She has told us she was entitled to between three and six months  pay if she was too unwell 
to work. Ms I hasnt  told us of any redundancy benefits she may have been entitled to. Ms I 
has said she was in good health at the time of both of the sales but told us shed  had a 
hysterectomy in June  1992 and suffered from whiplash  in 1995. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Ms Is representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Is representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms I wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Is representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Ms I about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms I and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN96686842The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms I received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms I disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant times. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI 
complaints on our website  and published  some example final decisions  that set out in detail 
how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Is. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Is complaint.
Both sales took place  before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the relevant times, which I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, regarding the second sale, The General  
Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the GISC 
Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN96686843The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at these times:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ms Is case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001   so applicable to the 1999 sale,  Im also required to 
take into account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of 
the Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Is complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN96686844-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Ms I with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Ms I sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms I, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms I suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms I and Lloyds, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Is complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms I know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
For the policy taken  in 1999 there is limited documentation available for the time of the sale. 
I dont find this surprising  or unusual because  of the length of time since  the sale and 
businesses arent  obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
But by this time, Ms I had already  had her mortgage  in place for nine years. So, I think Ms I 
would have been aware that the PPI was a standalone  policy and separate  from the 
mortgage. She would  have  known it was optional and likely chose to take it. 
Lloyds has been  able to give us a copy of the mortgage application from 2002 which shows  
she did have a choice  about taking the PPI to cover  the further advance.  And the Loan 
Assessment Form shows that Payment Protection Plus has been ticked on the sales  
section of the form. And even though Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy,  it has told 
us that Ms I would have  had to complete a Payment Protection Proposal Form  and from 
experience I think this is most likely   which was separate from the mortgage  application  
itself. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that for both sales,  Ms I knew the 
policies were optional  and she agreed  to take both policies out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ms I has told us that for both of the sales she didnt receive any advice from Lloyds. For 
Lloyds part, it cant be sure whether advice was given for the 1999 sale because of limited  
records. But to be fair to Ms I it has agreed that advice  was given.
And for the 2002 sale,  the documents Lloyds has been able to give us  and the detail they 
contain about Ms Is circumstances at the time  suggests that advice was mostly likely 
given.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Ms I with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN96686845the advice
For the 1999 sale  and because of the limited  information available  I dont know what  
steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms I. It 
seems Ms I cant  remember clearly what happened  and there is no record  of what  the 
adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a 
meeting  and particularly  because of the length of time since  the sale. The adviser likely 
had some limited information about Ms Is financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Ms I would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet her needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Ms I 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
And for the 2002 sale,  while I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, the 
documentary evidence  suggests that Lloyds  took some steps to establish whether the policy  
was a suitable recommendation for Ms I. The adviser had information about  some of Ms Is 
financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  some  documents 
were completed to try and establish whether Ms I had a need for the policy  by asking 
questions about  her wider  circumstances   I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. Again, theres nothing to show Ms I was asked about  her other circumstances, such  
as any health  issues as an example. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms I given  her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms I, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms I met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Ms I had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Ms Is ability to continue to meet  
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Ms I was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she says she 
would have been entitled to.
-Although Ms I says she was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms I. The policy 
would cover unemployment for self-employed people  but it excluded  directors of a 
limited company  which  according  to Companies House she was  where their 
unemployment was caused by voluntary liquidation.
Ive carefully thought  about the terms. And, in this case, I dont think Ms I wouldve 
found them  restrictive.  I say this because the policy only excluded  unemployment  
claims in situations where the unemployment was voluntary  rather than it being 
necessary. And I dont  think Ms P wouldve expected the policy  to cover  her for 
unemployment if she chose to liquidate her company.  Other than voluntary 
Ref: DRN96686846liquidation, Ms I would only need  to be registered  with the Government 
unemployment agencies  in order to make a claim.  
-Ms I hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  that could affect her 
ability to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical  conditions Ms I has told us about  
the hysterectomy  shed had in 1992 and whiplash in 1995  Ms I hasnt told us of any 
medical treatment since they occurred so I dont think they were  on-going  conditions  
which would have  been excluded under the policy  terms.  There  were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Ms I be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Ms Is circumstances, including her sickness (which she might expect to 
provide an income during the policys 60-day  qualification period)  and the 
limits to those provisions, which mean  the policy could  play an important  role 
after those provisions  were exhausted;  and
While  the policy included a requirement  that Ms I be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: 
Ms Is circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments  
relating to her home and the potential consequences should Ms I be unable  to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Ms I sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
While I cant be sure Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms I was given a broad  
description of what the policy was intended  to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  her 
payments if Ms I was unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Ms I would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms I agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms I Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Ms I all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ref: DRN96686847Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Is representative has raised a number  of 
general points  in regards to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Is. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Is representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms I about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Is representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms I has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Ms I? To what extent did Ms I suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms I. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms I suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms I would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms I, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms I has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Ms I 
would have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Ms I says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN96686848return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms I had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Is circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms I knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the exact premium at the point  Ms I applied  
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Ms I would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms I would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Ms I would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Is expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the 2002 policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than she would 
have expected as there  was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms I thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Ms I 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or about  
which Ms I had received  treatment from a doctor in the 12 months before the start of 
the policy and which recurred within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms I 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms I be unable  to 
do her own occupation, any similar occupation which Ms I was or may reasonably 
have become qualified for in view of her training education and ability;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms I pause  for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms I from taking  out the policy.  
Ref: DRN96686849But, the evidence  about Ms Is circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms I was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Ms I 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  I dont think Ms I had any pre-
existing medical conditions that meant she couldnt claim on the policy and she was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think she had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms I would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms I had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her own 
occupation and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view she might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although its possible she 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Ms I was unable (through disability) to 
carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Ms I that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Ms I would  have received full sick pay for and her statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms I would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms I be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Ms Is sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms I would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms I was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms I 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Is representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN966868410Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms I would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Is 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms I 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms I believes the presumption may only be rebutted when  the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms I in the position she would have been in if she had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Ms I compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms I thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Ms I, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 and 2002 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Is representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms I and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms I in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN966868411my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668684