K822xComplaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited, (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr B was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as M that supplied  and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a sales meeting at his home,  Mr B agreed to enter into a contract with M 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about £5,700. To fund this Mr B also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF).
Mr B made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative.  The 
representative said that M had told Mr B that the solar panels would be self-funded  and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. 
But that hadnt happened. Instead,  the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than 
the income.
In its final response letter,  BPF said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented  to Mr B. Unhappy with this response Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service.
Following our involvement BPF made  an offer of compensation  of around £1,700. It had 
worked out what it considered to be an estimate  of the potential savings and income to Mr B 
from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan. It had then reworked the loan so that he 
would pay no more  than that over the 10 year loan term.  It also offered to pay Mr B £100 to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused.
As Mr B had paid off his loan the offer of compensation would be paid directly  to him. 
Our investigator thought the offer was fair. Mr B, via his representative didnt. It said that 
BPF had overestimated the potential benefits from Mr Bs solar panel system and the current  
offer didnt make the panels self-funding. It wanted  BPF to increase its offer of 
compensation.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels  
would be entirely  self-financing.  As both BPF and Mr B accept that the benefits of the solar  
panels were misrepresented this decision will deal with what  I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN98357772Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr B back in the position he 
wouldve been in if there had been  no misrepresentation. However, here I dont think  it would 
be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home.  Rather, I 
think the fair outcome here is to put Mr B in a position where the panels are self-funding over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr B to keep the panels, Im satisfied that he will 
likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.
Mr Bs representative says that he was told that the loan repayments  would be covered by 
the FIT alone.  So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into 
account when  arriving at fair compensation.
Im satisfied that Mr B was misled into thinking  that the solar  panels would be self-funding. 
So, on that basis I need to decide fair compensation.  When thinking about that question, I 
think its fair to take account of the electricity generated  by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Mr B had to pay his loan and for any electricity used in addition  to that generated by 
the solar panels.  And on the other he can off-set those payments by the FIT payments  and 
the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would be unfair to 
ignore the electricity generated and used by Mr B when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology BPF has submitted to this service  to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar system.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Bs solar panel system.
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Bs solar 
panels it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Bs solar  panels that he is expected 
to use rather than buying electricity from his energy  provider.
Self-consumption is impacted by the period  of time that someone is in their home and able to 
use, or self-consume,  the electricity their solar panels are generating.  The rate that is paid by 
Mr Bs energy provider  is 50%, the rate that has been set by the Government. This means 
Mr B is paid,  by way of FIT income,  for 50% of the electricity the solar  panel system 
generates. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. Im 
of the opinion that it takes into account changing  consumer occupancy  habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in this case, Im 
satisfied that it is highly likely that Mr B will continue to benefit from the system as a result of 
the reduction in his electricity bills because of the electricity generated by his solar panels 
and the FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Ref: DRN98357773Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted BPF that means that his claim should  have been  upheld. The fact that this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an award of 
£100 to cover this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  should:
allow Mr B to keep the solar  panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr B from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so that he pays no more than this. Where  possible, it 
should use Mr Bs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of the settlement, and;
pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr B how much  it has taken 
off. It should  also give Mr B a certificate  showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9835777