K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited removed  the Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR)  from his policy without  his consent. 
background
Since October 1988 Mr B has had a personal  pension plan with another provider Ill call S, 
which became the responsibility of Royal London.  His policy had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate 
(GAR). His chosen retirement date is February  2023. 
In 2018 responding to the way customers were choosing to access their pension benefits 
following pension freedoms legislation, Royal London decided to offer the former S plan 
holders with GARs the chance  to exchange their GAR for an uplift in the value of their plans 
through a legal process known as a Part 26 (of the Companies Act 2006) scheme 
arrangement. This gave  them  the choice of opting  out and keeping  their GAR or giving up 
the GAR  in exchange for an increase in their retirement savings. Under the terms of the offer 
if the planholder didnt reply they were deemed  to have  accepted the uplift in exchange for 
giving up the GAR.
Royal London wrote  to eligible plan holders about  the proposed offer,  and in July and August 
2018 followed this up with further  communications  providing details of the Scheme set out in 
a Planholder circular.  Each planholder received a personalised offer, based on their policy 
value on 4 June  2018. Mr Bs personalised offer gave him an uplift  from the current plan 
value of around £62,703 to £100,972,  and a projected fund at retirement of £98,400  without 
the GAR.  If he opted out of the Scheme to keep the GAR his savings at retirement were 
projected to be £61,100. 
Planholders had to respond  whether they wished to opt in or out by 12pm  Friday  19 October 
2018, but Mr B didnt  respond. In February 2019  Royal London wrote to Mr B to advise him 
of the outcome. 15% of plan holders had opted  out and would keep their GARs, but the 
remainder who either  voted in favour or didnt respond were  considered  to have chosen to 
give up their GAR in exchange  for the uplift.  The letter  said that as Royal London  hadnt  
received a reply  from Mr B his pension savings had been increased  to just over £101,858 on 
7 December 2018 in exchange  for his GAR.  
Mr B didnt think Royal London should have  exchanged his GAR without his express  
consent, and it was unfair to vary the terms so near the end of the policy.  Royal  London 
replied in May 2019 apologising  that Mr B had interpreted the Scheme in that way. Its offer  
aimed to enable people to use their retirement savings flexibly without losing all the benefits 
of a GAR.  It provided copies of the information  which had been sent to Mr B which  explained 
the scheme. It said permission had to be obtained  from the High Court and the scheme  was 
reviewed by an independent actuary to ensure it was fair. It had made clear a non-response  
would be considered as acceptance of the offer, and hed had adequate  time to make  his 
decision. So it didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr B complained to this service saying he thought GARs would cripple  Royal London 
financially, so it cynically opted him out without his consent, which  he says the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  shouldnt have allowed. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and wanted to be sure Mr B had been  treated  fairly.  So there was a delay while  
assurance was sought from the FCA that it had been made aware of the scheme. The FCA 
confirmed it had been consulted in advance  about  the terms of the offer and had reviewed 
Ref: DRN97058372the uplift calculation.  So the investigator concluded the offer had been communicated 
clearly, Mr B had been given adequate  time to consider his decision and respond,  the offer 
was in line with the legislation and the process had been fair. So he didnt  think  Royal  
London needed to reinstate Mr Bs GAR.
Mr B replied  maintaining Royal London  shouldnt have switched him out of the GAR  with 
only his implied  not actual  written consent, and asked  for the case to be passed up the 
chain.  So its come to me to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
I take Mr Bs point that a contract shouldnt be changed without the consent of both parties. 
But I dont think its fair to say thats  what happened  here. Mr Bs GAR wasnt removed  
without him having  a say. He was given  the opportunity to retain it, but if thats what  he 
wanted he had to let Royal London  know his decision, and he didnt respond.  
Ive looked carefully  at copies of the correspondence sent to Mr B, and Im satisfied  it was 
made clear on multiple occasions a non-response would be considered as acceptance. 
The offer letter from August  2018 which explained  the proposal was bold headed  Its time to 
decide what you want to do  either  opt out and keep the Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR), 
or give up the GAR in exchange  for an increase to your retirement  savings.  In  a bordered 
box at the top right-hand  corner  on the front page  it read You need to read this letter and 
the enclosed pack as they contain important information. It doesnt matter  if youre  close to 
retirement or years away from it, the offer were making affects you and could significantly 
impact your life in retirement. It is important that you consider our offer and tell us your 
decision by 12pm  on 19 October 2018.
The letter then went on to set out Royal Londons rationale for making the offer,  the decision 
Mr B had to make, how that decision could be communicated, which  included  voting in 
person at the plan-holder meeting, and the support  he could access to help him decide, 
which included subsidised financial advice. And at the bottom of every page  in bold capitals 
it read Please use your decision form to opt out or vote on the scheme. 
And the front page of the decision  form reads as follows
Complete  this form to let Royal London  know whether you want to:
opt out of the Scheme  and keep the guaranteed annuity rate (GAR)
vote on the Scheme. 
The front page  of Mr Bs personalised offer said The GAR is a valuable  benefit and you 
must opt out of the Scheme to be sure of keeping it. If you dont opt out and the Scheme is 
implemented youll lose the GAR. 
The planholder circular  is actually two documents - Part A set out the reason Royal  London 
was considering the offer, how it would  be calculated,  things  to think about  when considering  
giving up the GAR  and where to go for help making  the decision which included a helpline 
and subsidised financial advice.  Part B contained  more detailed information  and appendices 
including the terms of the scheme and extracts from reports from the actuaries. 
Ref: DRN97058373The section in Part A headed in bold capitals Telling us your decision  says Remember   
 the Scheme will be binding on everyone it applies to regardless  of how they voted or if 
they didnt vote at all. So its very important  that you opt out if you definitely want  to keep the 
GAR. 
Section 1.2 of Part B headed What  happens  if I do nothing reads if you do nothing and the 
Scheme is implemented,  the GAR will be removed from the terms of your plan and your 
retirement savings will be increased. This is because the Scheme will be binding on all 
planholders to which  it applies, even if you vote against the Scheme or dont vote at all.
I dont think Mr B could reasonably have assumed hed opted out as section 7.7 makes clear 
if a planholder  had done so by post or online theyd receive confirmation by post or email.  
And 7.12 says a planholder  cant opt out after the scheme has been implemented.  I think 
Mr B was given enough time to consider his options carefully and reply in time as the offer 
was made  in July/August and Mr B had to communicate his decision  by mid-October. 
Although Mr B hasnt  said otherwise, Im satisfied he received the initial  pack as Ive listened 
to a recording of a call he made to Royal  London  in June 2018 to update his address.  The 
initial pack had been sent to his previous  address, but he told the call handler  he didnt need 
them to send him out another one as hed received it. As hed changed his address in Royal 
Londons records the subsequent correspondence  was sent to the right place. Im not sure 
what else Royal London could have done  to ensure the terms were clear to Mr B. 
Mr Bs main point is the Scheme shouldnt have been set up on the basis that a lack of 
response was considered  as acceptance  of the offer. But the evidence  Ive seen shows the 
Scheme was approved  by the court, several actuaries and the FCA. Ive seen the Order for 
Directions from the High Court in June 2018.  This explained each eligible policy  holder 
would be sent a covering letter, a plan-holder circular,  a decision form, a personalised offer 
and a reply-paid  envelope and the court  saw examples of these. It set out how the plan-
holder meeting would  be convened  and advertised,  how the decision whether to implement 
the scheme would  be taken, and that the vote would  be counted by the Electoral Reform 
Services. It also set out what would happen  if a decision  form was returned unsigned and 
various other  matters.  And final outcome would be heard in court  in November 2018. So I 
think if the court felt it was unfair to consider failing to respond as acceptance  then it would 
have required the Scheme terms to be changed.
Im satisfied the information  was presented in a way which  balanced providing enough detail 
with ensuring it was relatively  easy to understand. Royal London provided a means for 
planholders to raise  queries, offered subsidised financial  advice and allowed enough time in 
which to do so. So Ive no reason  to say the terms were unfair. 
While Mr B may disagree with the principle of implied consent,  I think he could have  opted  
out of the Scheme and retained his GAR,  regardless of the financial impact on Royal 
London. And responding wouldnt have prevented him raising a complaint about  the process. 
I appreciate Mr B would  rather have  his GAR, but it seems the amount of uplift  he received  
was slightly higher than his personalised offer.  So I dont think  Royal  London has treated him 
unfairly and doesnt  need  to reinstate his GAR. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN97058374Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705837