K822xcomplaint
Miss B, represented by her mother, complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC incorrectly  changed the 
details of the trustee on her Lloyds Young Saver account which  meant details of the account 
were sent to her father. He used this information  to withdraw £20,000  from the account 
without authorisation.  Lloyds  then took several months to sort things out.
background 
Miss Bs mother opened a Lloyds Young Saver account for her in 2016. Her mother  was 
registered as the trustee  of the account  when it was opened and her mother  and father 
separated after that time. In August 2018,  Miss Bs mother discovered she couldnt access  
the details of the account online so she went into her branch to inquire about this but they 
werent able to help.  Miss Bs mother followed up with the bank and later discovered the 
account trustee had been changed to her estranged husband. £20,000 had been withdrawn 
by him. The account  had then been  closed with a balance of £250.37. Miss Bs mother 
complained about this on her behalf.
Lloyds recognised it had made a mistake as a system error had incorrectly  changed the 
trustee on the account. It offered  to refund the amount  taken from the account plus interest 
and to pay £250 as compensation for its breach of the Data  Protection Act and £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. Miss Bs mother didnt feel this was enough to reflect the trouble 
Lloyds mistake had caused  her and her family so she came to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld so Miss Bs mother asked for review  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Lloyds has accepted it made a mistake 
which meant details  of Miss Bs account  were shared with her father when  they shouldnt  
have been which allowed  him to take £20,000 from her account. So I will only look at 
whether or not the redress  offered is enough to put things right.
I issued a provisional decision dated 9 April 2019  recommending that the compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by the data protection breach  should  be increased to £500plus 
£150 for the service issues. Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision and Miss Bs 
mother provided additional information about the impact on their family life and finances  
which painted a clearer picture of the significant emotional distress Lloyds error  caused to 
Miss B. Taking that additional information  into account, I issued another provisional decision 
dated 6 June 2019 indicating that I thought compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused should be further increased to £1000. 
Lloyds accepted this decision. But Miss Bs mother submitted further information in response 
to the second  provisional decision highlighting the costs she had incurred through additional 
borrowing. Im grateful for her further submissions but they dont  change  my assessment of 
the case. I dont  doubt that Miss Bs mother struggled to find alternative sources of family 
funding and that she may have incurred additional  interest on further  borrowing. But the 
loans she has evidenced werent taken out in Miss Bs name and the evidence is mostly 
based on messages  from friends and family. So I cant award  compensation for those  costs  
because the evidence doesnt show they were clearly and directly incurred by Miss B 
Ref: DRN92451302herself. Interest of 8% simple has already been  paid on the funds that were  taken  to reflect  
the fact that Miss B didnt  have use of them for several months.
The relatively high level of compensation for the distress caused  to Miss B already takes 
account of the impact  of family financial  problems  on Miss B herself.  Revealing information 
about the account to her father led to the loss of £20,000 from Miss Bs account. This wasnt  
returned until several months later.  Miss Bs mother  has explained that this money  had been  
given to Miss B to cover  living expenses following the break  up of her parents marriage  and 
the difficult situation this put Miss B and her mother in. I accept the evidence  that the funds 
paid into Miss Bs account by relatives were intended to provide for daily living costs. Its 
clear that the data breach  significantly worsened a very stressful  family situation  for Miss B. 
While I havent spoken to Miss B directly, I believe its likely  that, given the family situation, 
the loss of this money wouldve made  an already stressful and difficult  situation much worse  
for her.
Lloyds offered £250 for the data breach and £150  as compensation for the poor level of 
service Miss B received when her mother first noticed the problem. As the branch werent 
able to help and it took some time to find out what was going on, the situation was made 
much worse  and went on for a long time which Miss Bs mother  says was extremely  stressful 
for them and affected Miss Bs sleep. It meant  that Miss Bs mother struggled to find funds to 
cover their living expenses and had to borrow  more  money from relatives and increase her 
credit card debt which put an awful lot of emotional strain on the family  over a long time. 
Against the background of family  break-up,  I find this must  have caused substantial distress
for Miss B.
The examples of awards on our website indicate  that redress  of between  £500 and £2,000 is 
appropriate in cases of substantial trouble and upset: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/distress-andinconvenience-case-
studies.html#om 
Awards for distress and inconvenience are not based on an exact  scale  but require  a 
weighing up of all of the evidence to reach an appropriate award. Based on my assessment  
of the impact  on Miss B and in light of the additional  evidence provided and the length of 
time it took for Lloyds to address the problem, I find that the award should be higher than the 
minimum amount in this range. I am therefore  currently minded to order  an award of £1000  
overall for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the data breach  and the service failures 
that allowed  the situation to go on for so long. This is higher than my initial  assessment 
because I can now see that the impact  on Miss Bs family situation  was really significant  over 
several months.
This compensation is not designed  to penalise Lloyds but reflects the impact  on Miss B. I 
cant offer an award for the trouble  and upset caused to others  including  Miss Bs relatives. I 
understand that Miss B and her mother feel very strongly about the need for Lloyds to be 
held accountable for the data breach. But my role is to resolve their personal complaint, not 
to punish the business.  This decision does not prevent them  from reporting the issue  to the 
Information Commissioners Office  which is the relevant  regulator  to investigate  data
breaches.
Lloyds has now refunded the money that was taken from the account plus the balance  at the 
time of closure and I understand it has agreed to calculate and pay interest at 8% simple  on 
this amount to reflect the fact that Miss B didnt have use of the funds  for several  months.
Ref: DRN92451303my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should pay Miss B £1000 as compensation  for the substantial  distress its 
mistakes caused her in addition to the refund with interest that it has already made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9245130