K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs B have complained about  the increase in the amount charged by BUPA  
Insurance Limited for their private  medical insurance  policy.
background
Mr K and Mrs B took out the policy in 2016. By the time the policy  renewed two years later, 
the premium had risen  by over 50%. Mr K and Mrs B complained to BUPA.
BUPA didnt  uphold  the complaint. It explained  the factors behind the increased premiums.
Mr K and Mrs B were  unhappy at BUPAs response. They  referred their complaint to us. 
They said BUPA hadnt  warned them that the premium might  increase by more  than 50% in 
the event they made claims.  They  thought BUPA was simply raising the cost of the policy to 
recover the cost of the claims  made,  which they argued was not how an insurance policy 
was supposed  to operate. They thought BUPA should be restricted  in the percentage by 
which it could increase premiums each  year.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that BUPA had calculated the premium  fairly  each year and had given an adequate 
explanation of the reasons for the increase.
Mr K and Mrs B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. The matter  has therefore  been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we would not normally  get involved.
In this case, BUPA has explained  to Mr K and Mrs B the factors which have caused their 
premium to increase  and has provided  a breakdown of what  percentage of the increase is 
due to each factor. It has confirmed that they havent been singled out; any other 
policyholder in their position would have been  treated in the same way. I think BUPAs 
explanation is reasonable. 
Mr K and Mrs B have remarked about  the effect of their claims upon  the premium.  As they 
are aware, their premium  is subject to a no claims discount (NCD) scheme.  When  they took 
out the policy, they were placed  on the NCD scale at a level which entitled them to a 65% 
discount on their premium. As the policy explains, if they make a claim it will cause them to 
move down that scale meaning  that their discount will reduce and their premium will increase 
accordingly. This is therefore  one of the factors behind  the increased  premium they are now 
paying though, as BUPA has explained, it is not the only factor. I dont find the NCD scheme  
to be unfair.
Ref: DRN97115402I appreciate that Mr K and Mrs B are concerned about the increase in the cost of their policy. 
They think  that BUPA is simply  raising the premium  to get the policyholder to pay back  100% 
of any claim they make.  They  say this isnt how insurance should work. Im satisfied that 
BUPA doesnt take into account  an individuals claims when setting an individuals  premium 
except through  the transparent mechanic  of the NCD. But in any case, the way an insurer  
chooses to spread its overall costs across  all its policyholders is a matter  for that insurer  to 
decide. We are not a financial  or pricing  regulator and so cant  tell BUPA that it must  restrict 
premium increases to a particular percentage. In the end, it is up to Mr K and Mrs B to 
decide whether  the policy represents good value for money.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9711540