K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1991. The policy covered Mr G only. Mr G and the estate of Mrs G say 
Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and the late Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr G says they were  told they 
had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage. But he hasnt given us much  detail about 
what happened or what else was said at the sale. And Nationwide  hasnt been able to send 
us copies of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application form, or any other evidence  from the sale 
showing they chose  to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has passed  since the 
sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Nationwide told Mr and Mrs G that they had to 
have the PPI. So I think its likely Nationwide made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs G that hey had a 
choice about the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Mr G has also suggested they were pressured into taking out the PPI. But he hasnt given us 
much more detail about what  was said,  or why they felt this. This is understandable given 
how long ago the sale was. But I dont think theres  enough evidence  here for me to say that 
Nationwide unfairly  pressured Mr and Mrs G into taking out the PPI.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G any personalised advice  
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs G. But it did have to make sure they got the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr G wouldve  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
The policy couldve  paid out for longer than Mr Gs told us he wouldve been entitled  to sick 
pay. And it wouldve meant Mr and Mrs G didnt  need to rely on their savings to make their 
mortgage repayments if Mr G wasnt earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong.
Mr G has said they were  both in high demand professions where it was easy  to find work, 
and so didnt need the PPI. But peoples circumstances can change. And the PPI wouldve 
provided cover if Mr G wasnt  able to find work for some time.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Gs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
Ref: DRN98128082protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs G off taking it out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G and the 
estate of Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision before 5 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9812808