K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that he sent Gladstone Brookes documents by post which  theyve said 
havent been received.  
background
Gladstone Brookes sent Mr A forms to complete on 25 July 2018 so that they could pursue 
claims for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) on his behalf. 
Gladstone Brookes say they tried to contact  Mr A to return the forms so that they could 
represent him in making PPI claims, but they couldnt get in contact with Mr A. Because  of 
this, they closed the claims  on their system in October 2018. 
Mr A says he reviewed the forms sent to him in July 2018, and then spoke to a Gladstone 
Brookes representative  who told him that hed need to sign the forms, and return them  along  
with Mr As late wifes  death certificate so that they could  continue with any claims for 
accounts held in her name also. Mr A says he didnt  hear anything  from Gladstone  Brookes 
so he phoned  them in November 2018, and was told that nothing  had been received back.
Mr A complained to Gladstone Brookes as he felt strongly that hed spoken to someone  from 
Gladstone Brookes, and hed sent all that was requested. He says he also sent a copy of the 
receipt showing hed sent back the requested forms and document. Gladstone  Brookes 
responded to Mr A saying that they hadnt received anything,  but they could investigate the 
complaint further  if he could provide  a tracking  number for what  hed sent. 
Mr A was unhappy with the response  from Gladstone Brookes, and so referred his complaint 
to the Legal Ombudsman.  This complaint was originally investigated by the Legal 
Ombudsman, but was transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman  (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service) as part of the change in the regulation of claims management 
companies. 
The investigator found that there wasnt any evidence to support Mr As testimony that 
documents had been sent.  The investigator asked Mr A to provide this evidence but as 
nothing was received,  didnt  recommend Gladstone Brookes do anything more.  As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr A. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings,  
and I wont be recommending Gladstone Brookes do anything more.
I dont doubt that what  Mr A has told Gladstone  Brookes and this service is true to the very 
best of his knowledge. Gladstone Brookes say they theres nothing more they can do 
because theres no evidence of them receiving anything.
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have  
happened. Although  Mr A feels certain that Gladstone Brookes are responsible  for his 
missing correspondence,  I havent seen enough  evidence to say that Gladstone Brookes 
Ref: DRN98661802have done something wrong. I can understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment  to 
Mr A but I hope my findings go some  way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.   
The evidence Ive seen  shows that Gladstone Brookes sent Mr A forms to complete in July 
2018. The case notes  provided by Gladstone Brookes indicate  that they tried to contact Mr A 
without success to return these forms. Because they couldnt  reach  Mr A, the claims were 
closed. 
When Mr A raised his complaint about the missing claims forms, and document, Gladstone 
Brookes asked Mr A to provide evidence of these  being sent. As both parties  had a different 
understanding of what  had happened, I think its fair that Gladstone Brookes asked for proof  
of delivery. 
Gladstone Brookes dont have any evidence  of receiving the completed claim forms, 
document, or the proof of delivery receipt Mr A says was sent. On balance,  having reviewed 
the evidence Im unable to say that Gladstone Brookes have done  something wrong.  Mr A 
was provided with further opportunities  to send in any evidence supporting his complaint 
about the correspondence being  sent to Gladstone  Brookes. I cant  see that anything has 
been sent to us. With the evidence available to me, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Gladstone Brookes to do anything more  to resolve  Mr As complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9866180