K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Leeds Building  Society  (Leeds) mis-sold payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a mortgage. 
background
PPI was initially sold to Mr D in 1993.  In 1999, Mr D moved house.  At this time, he increased 
the level of cover on his existing policy  to cover his new payments. In 2000,  Mr Ds mortgage 
was frozen  and he didnt have  to make any payments towards  it. The policy  remained open  
after that time. 
The matter  was referred to us in 2016.  In his complaint form, Mr D said that the PPI policy 
did not provide  an adequate level of cover  for his mortgage repayments. He complained  that 
Leeds did not advise him adequately  about the policy. And they didnt take the opportunity to 
tell him that the policy was unsuitable  when he re-mortgaged.  He also said that Leeds told 
him the PPI was compulsory. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with that view.  
While his complaint was waiting to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, Leeds made an offer to 
repay some of Mr Ds PPI premiums  back to him. This was because  it hadnt told him about 
a high level of commission  it received.  
The matter  was passed to me to make a final decision. I asked our adjudicator to make 
some further  enquiries of the parties. I am grateful to both Mr D and Leeds for the speed  at 
which they responded to that request. 
Its clear from Mr Ds correspondence  that hes not happy  about his PPI cover  ending when 
he was 65. I want  to be clear at the outset that the issue before me is whether this policy 
was mis-sold. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
After considering all of the evidence before me, I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
Mr D initially bought a PPI policy in 1993.  That policy was amended in 1999. Our adjudicator  
has treated this as a separate sale. So to that end, I have considered what happened in both 
1993 and in 1999. I have  dealt with each period of time separately  below. 
1993
It seems  likely to me that, as Mr D recalls, this policy was sold to him during a meeting. I 
cant know what was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats likely  to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mr D remembers about the sale.  Ive also considered  some  
documents that Leeds sent to us. And Ive thought about what  we know about  this type of 
PPI that covered mortgages at that particular time. 
Ref: DRN99344022The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr D would have known this PPI policy was 
optional and he didnt  have to buy it if he didnt want it. In his PPI questionnaire,  Mr D said 
that Leeds told him that PPI was compulsory and he had to take it out alongside his 
mortgage. But I have  to take account of the fact that this PPI policy  was sold over 25 years  
ago. And it is difficult to remember precisely  what happened  such  a long time ago. 
Although I havent  seen  the exact documents that Mr D filled out in 1993, Leeds has sent us 
some sample paperwork that it used  to sell PPI at that time. I think  that what the parties 
discussed at the time probably followed whats written on the paperwork. I cant  see that it is 
stated on that form that PPI was compulsory. And although I appreciate Mr  Ds recollection 
is different, I think hed have probably  known it wasnt a condition  of the mortgage at the 
time.  
This was an advised  sale, so Leeds  had to make sure it was suitable for Mr Ds needs. To 
help me decide  whether it was suitable, Ive considered what  Mr D told us about his personal 
circumstances in 1993. And Ive also thought about what  the terms and conditions  of the 
policy would have been at the time.  
Leeds hasnt been able to give us a copy of the terms and conditions  of the particular PPI 
policy Mr D took out, which isnt unusual given the time that has passed. Mr D hasnt 
supplied it to us either.  And I wouldnt expect him to have kept a copy  from such a long time 
ago. Leeds has sent us a copy  of a PPI policy  from April 1995.  I think  its likely that the terms 
and conditions were  similar to those  offered by Leeds in 1993. And those terms are 
consistent with those that were offered by other businesses in the early  1990s.  
So, if hed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, I think Mr Ds mortgage repayments would 
have probably  been  covered for up to 12 months  for each claim. Mr D told us that he didnt 
need PPI because hed have got 6 months  full pay and 6 months  half pay from his employer 
if he was too unwell to work. It follows that the PPI would have paid out in addition  to and for 
longer than his full pay. 
Mr D told us that the period of his sick pay could  have been extended at the discretion of his 
employer. But by definition, such a decision was discretionary  and not guaranteed.  He also 
told us that he had savings worth  more than 12 months of his salary.  I dont doubt that was 
the case. But with PPI, he would have been  able to use his savings on his other essential 
expenditure at what would have  no doubt  been  a very stressful  time for him if he was out of 
work. Mr D also told us that he would have  been  able to get help from a family member if he 
was out of work. I dont doubt it would  have been the intention of that family member  to help, 
but circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that assistance  would have  been  
available as and when Mr D needed it. 
Mr D told us he was in good health  when  he bought  cover. So I dont think  hed have been 
caught by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Ive also thought very 
carefully about whether hed have been affected  by any of the other exclusions. Thats 
because in his PPI questionnaire,  Mr D said that he worked in the construction  industry and 
occasionally when  the job or project  finished, you would lose your position. I asked our 
adjudicator to find out some more about Mr Ds employment status because if he was a 
contractor, it could have  been difficult for him to make a claim. But Mr D was clear in his 
response to us that in 1993,  he was a full-time member of staff and he didnt work from 
project to project.  
Ref: DRN99344023Mr D also told us that he had worked for a limited company. In response to an enquiry I 
asked our adjudicator  to make,  Mr D told us that this was not his limited company and he 
had never  run his own company. On that basis, Im satisfied that the exclusions about 
company directors wouldnt apply to him. 
Mr D told us that hed also tried to make  a claim and was refused. As this could have 
indicated the policy wasnt right for him, I asked our adjudicator to make further enquiries on 
this point as well. Mr D did very understandably say that as we were  asking about 
circumstances over 20 years ago, he wasnt sure why the claim was refused. But he thought 
it could have been because hed had a big redundancy payment from his employer.  Leeds  
wasnt able to tell us anything about his claim.  
Refusing Mr Ds claim because  he had a redundancy payment isnt allowed  for in the policy.  
So I cant say why the claim was refused at that time. 
Mr D said that the amount  of PPI Leeds  recommended wasnt adequate for his needs.  He 
said that his mortgage repayment was in the region of £500 per month,  but the PPI only 
covered him for £300 per month.  
Neither party has been able to provide me with any written evidence as to what 
Mr Ds mortgage repayments were in 1993. Thats not surprising given the policy  was sold 
over 25 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep records  for such a long time. But 
what I have seen is a copy of Mr Ds 1999  mortgage  application.  And I can see from there 
that his (then) current  mortgage payment was said to be approximately £300. The evidence  
Ive seen doesnt suggest that Mr D made  any other changes to his mortgage between  1993 
and 1999. So I think it is likely that his mortgage  was in the region of £300 per month in 
1993. And so the PPI provided  sufficient cover. 
Our adjudicator has noted that Mr D requested that when I make my decision,  I rely only 
upon certified copies  of documents  from Leeds. He indicated previously that the copies 
Leeds provided to us were not true copies of his documents. He also said that if he pursued 
his claim in court, he would need certified  copies of those documents from this service. 
Hopefully Mr D will understand that it is not the role of the ombudsman service  to gather 
evidence on his behalf for any proceedings  he wishes to issue  after this final decision. I have 
thought about whether I need to request certified  copies of the documents in my 
consideration of this complaint.  I have  concluded  I do not. I have relied  upon  the 1999  
mortgage application form. The evidence does not suggest to me that the form provided is 
not an accurate  copy of the original. Notably,  save for the information about  the amount of 
the mortgage, the information it contains  is consistent with what  Mr D told us about his 
circumstances at the time. After taking account  of that document and the information it 
contains, it appears to me to be inherently unlikely that the application provided  to us is not a 
true copy  of the original. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the recommendation Leeds made to buy this PPI was a suitable. 
Even though  the policy was suitable, Leeds  still had to give Mr D enough information about 
the PPI so he could  decide for himself  whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  That 
information should have been  clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Leeds 
didnt tell Mr D everything it should  have done.  But I dont think more  or better information 
about the cover would have put Mr D off buying it. Ive set out above how I think  the cover 
Ref: DRN99344024might have been helpful if he lost his job and he could have made  a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
1999 
Its not entirely clear  whether there was a separate  PPI sale in 1999 as the evidence  seems 
to suggest there Mr D amended his existing policy. But to be fair to Mr D and to avoid any 
doubt, as its been  considered by our adjudicator  to be a new sale,  I have proceeded on that 
basis. 
I think the 1999 sale also took place  during  a meeting. Again, I cant know what was said 
during this meeting. To help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked again at 
what Mr D told us. And theres also some contemporaneous paperwork. I know  Mr D has 
reservations about the documents  Leeds sent us. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Ive 
relied on these documents.  
I think its clear  that Mr D would have known he had a choice about the PPI in 1999.  I say 
this because in order to complete the mortgage application form, Mr D would  have had to 
sign and date one of three options:  that he wanted to buy Leeds PPI policy, that he already 
had PPI elsewhere or that he didnt want a policy at all. Mr D has indicated  that he had a 
policy with Leeds  and he wanted to increase  the cover to £400 per month. I think  the request 
to increase the cover indicates there was a discussion between  the parties about PPI. And I 
think the person  selling the cover would  have made  it clear the policy  was optional. If he 
didnt want PPI, he could  have signed  the box refusing it. 
In July 1999, Mr D wrote  to Leeds  to check that his PPI policy  would continue, so I think  it 
shows he wanted PPI at that time.  As well as that, I can see that in 2000,  when Mr Ds 
mortgage was frozen,  Leeds said they would cancel  his PPI policy. Ive seen a letter  Mr D 
sent to Leeds  in response and he said on no account do I wish the [PPI] to be cancelled, the 
policy has been in force since 1992 and I wish this to remain so.  While I appreciate  this 
letter was sent the year after the PPI was sold,  I think  it shows  how keen Mr D was to have a 
PPI policy. And on balance, I think that was his view in 1999.  
Im aware of Mr Ds concerns about the evidence Leeds has sent to us. But after considering 
those letters, Im satisfied  they were  written by Mr D. 
Its likely  that Leeds  recommended the PPI to Mr D in 1999. And so again, it had to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for his needs. This time,  Ive seen a copy of a policy document 
from that time. I think Mr D would have been covered for up to 12 months  if hed become 
sick or if he was made redundant.  I havent seen that Mr D would have been affected  by any 
of the policys  exclusions and Ive seen nothing  unusual  about Mr Ds employment 
circumstances that would have stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed  to. 
Overall, I think the policy probably  was suitable. 
Again, I accept it is possible that Leeds didnt tell Mr D everything it should have done  about 
the PPI. But as I think Mr D clearly wanted  the PPI and it was suitable for his needs, I dont 
think further information would have put him off buying it. 
I appreciate that Mr D has pursued  his complaint with some vigour. Im sorry to disappoint 
him, but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I cant uphold  this complaint in respect of the 
mis-sale.  Which means Leeds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
Ref: DRN99344025But Leeds  will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Leeds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Leeds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
putting things right 
Leeds has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Leeds should also pay back  to Mr D any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Leeds should pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Leeds  should also pay Mr D 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on any payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim this back  if he doesnt  pay  tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934402