K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a savings and protection  plan as he was told it would 
be worth  £57,000 when he reached  the age of 55. But ReAssure  Limited has now told him 
the value of his plan is £9,000.
background
Mr T took out a maximum cover plan in May 1984.  This was a unit linked whole-of-life policy  
which had an initial sum assured  of £54,945. The plan was subject to policy  reviews  to make 
sure the premiums were  still enough  to meet that sum assured, and these led to it reducing 
over the years.
Mr T received a policy statement in May 2018  which said the sum assured of his plan was 
£37,506. He contacted ReAssure to surrender his policy but was told this was the life cover  
of the plan and its value  was around  £9,000.
So he complained that the plan had been mis-sold  to him. He said he wanted  a plan that 
gave him a savings  fund and life cover until he was 55, so he could retire.
ReAssure upheld his complaint as it didnt think the plan was the right recommendation for 
him at the time. But it said he hadnt  suffered a financial  loss. It looked at the premiums  hed 
paid and interest on them, and compared  this with his plans surrender value which  was 
higher. It said it hadnt seen anything to say that hed been  given a guarantee that the plan 
would pay him £57,000.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He said the comparison calculation 
Reassure had carried out was fair. The surrender value of his plan was more  than the 
premiums hed paid and added interest, so no refund was due to him.
The investigator couldnt see any evidence to say that the plan would  provide  Mr T with 
£57,000 when  he was 55. He was satisfied Mr T had been  given  enough information to let 
him know what his plan sum assured  was and how its value  was calculated.
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said he was sold an investment policy with life insurance that ended up being an insurance  
policy with a small investment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr T has been disappointed to learn that the value of his whole-of-life 
plan isnt what he expected, particularly if he was planning  on using the money  from it in his 
retirement.
Ref: DRN99201482I can see that hes said he wanted  a savings plan and life cover until he was 55 and could 
use this for his retirement. His whole-of-life plan is a maximum cover  plan, meaning it gave 
him the maximum amount of life cover for his premium until he passes away. It is unit-linked  
and much of his premium  will have been used to pay for the costs of his life cover, with the 
rest being invested. His policy  has been reviewed over the years but Mr T has chosen to 
keep his premium amount  the same, so his sum assured has gone  down from what it was 
initially.
ReAssure has upheld  Mr Ts complaint as it didnt think this whole-of-life  plan met his needs 
and circumstances  at the time it was sold to him. And it has compared the value of the 
premiums he did pay (together with interest at an annual  rate of 8% simple) with the 
surrender value of his plan. And this comparison has shown that the surrender value is the 
higher amount.
I know that Mr T recalls being  told his plan would give him £57,000  so he could either retire 
at age 55 or this amount would be for the benefit of his family if he passed  away.  But I 
havent seen anything to confirm the plans surrender value was guaranteed  to achieve this 
figure. The sum assured would be payable in the event of Mr Ts death, however, as Ive 
said, this has reduced  over the years in line with the policy reviews, and Mr T has been 
made aware  of this. I can see that both the sum assured and current value of his fund 
holdings are shown  on the statements hes provided.
Overall, I think ReAssure  has given Mr T a fair response to his complaint, and its calculation 
shows that he hasnt  suffered  a financial loss as a result  of the advice he received in 1984.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9920148