K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited unfairly  declined  a claim for 
childrens critical  illness  benefit  under her critical illness policy.  
background
Mrs C took out critical illness cover with Aviva  in February 2016. The policy  provided cover  in 
the event that she was diagnosed with a listed critical  illness.  It also provided cover in the 
event that Mrs Cs child was diagnosed  with a critical illness.  
Mrs C contacted Aviva in February  2018 to ask about making a claim. She explained her 
daughter, E, had sadly been diagnosed with cancer.  During  the conversation it came to light 
that this was a recurrence of a previous  cancer.  Aviva explained that because  of this it 
couldnt consider  a claim. It referred  to the following  policy  exclusion:  
The illness  or condition must not have been  present at birth (whether diagnosed or not), and 
the symptoms must not have started  before the start of the policy  or before the child was 
covered by the policy. 
Mrs C complained to Aviva in 2018.  She said the policy wording it was relying on was vague 
and couldnt fairly apply  to her daughters case.  She contacted Aviva again in May 2018, via 
its online portal, to start a claim  for her daughter. And Aviva  sent out claim forms for her to 
complete. 
Aviva responded to Mrs Cs complaint in June  2018. It explained that the original adviser 
was right to say that it couldnt consider a claim, as E had been diagnosed with a recurrence 
of a previous cancer. But it accepted that itd made a mistake by sending out claim forms, as 
it had raised her expectations  that a claim may be accepted. Because of this it offered to pay 
her £200  compensation, and agreed  to request some medical information to help clarify Es 
diagnosis.
Having considered the medical evidence it received, Aviva  confirmed that it couldnt  accept 
the claim.  It said the medical evidence showed  E was diagnosed with cancer  in 2015, after 
shed experienced symptoms of knee pain. It accepted that shed later gone into remission. 
But it said that as her symptoms had pre-dated the policy  it couldnt  pay the claim. 
Mrs C disagreed with Avivas conclusions. She maintained that the policy wording was 
vague and didnt apply in these circumstances. She said her daughter  had no symptoms 
when cover started,  and had been in complete remission at the time she took out the policy.
Aviva reconsidered  the claim but maintained that the claim couldnt be accepted, because of 
Es earlier diagnosis.  
    
Unhappy with Avivas  decision, Mrs C referred  a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint but concluded that Aviva had been fair to decline the 
claim on the basis that symptoms of the condition had pre-dated  the policy. He also 
considered the £200 offered, fairly  compensated Mrs C for the trouble and upset of 
incorrectly receiving claim  forms. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the policy wording was 
ambiguous. She pointed  to the fact that it didnt specify a time period to clarify what  it meant 
Ref: DRN93847012by before. She said E had no symptoms  before  cover had started.  She also said Es earlier 
cancer diagnosis  was separate to her new diagnosis,  as shed been cured. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Es ill health. Its clear  from everything Mrs C has told us that this 
has been an incredibly  difficult  time for her and her family. I do hope  the situation  improves  
for them soon. 
Having carefully considered all the information  provided by both sides, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator. I realise this will come 
as a serious disappointment  to Mrs C, so Id like to explain how Ive reached my conclusion. 
The issue  in dispute in this case is whether Aviva has applied the policy exclusion, quoted  
above, fairly and reasonably to Mrs Cs claim. 
Its accepted that Es condition wasnt present at birth.  So the relevant section of the 
exclusion is the symptoms must not have started  before the start of the policy  or before the 
child was covered by the policy. As E was covered by the policy as soon as it started, the 
issue I have to determine is whether she had symptoms before February 2016. 
Mrs C has said her daughter didnt have symptoms  before the policy  started because she 
was in complete  remission  from January 2016  until her recent  diagnosis  in June 2017. But 
Im afraid I disagree with her interpretation.
As Mrs C has noted, Aviva hasnt applied  a time limit to the exclusion and hasnt further 
defined before. So Ive considered the ordinary, everyday  meaning  of the word before. 
I think a reasonable  interpretation is that the symptoms were  in existence at or during a time 
earlier than when the policy started. As E had symptoms of cancer in 2015, Im satisfied  she 
had symptoms before  the start of the policy.  
Ive carefully considered  the available medical  information, and understand that E was in 
remission at the time cover started. And so I can understand  that Mrs C and her family would 
have been hopeful that the cancer  was cured  and wouldnt  return.  But I can see E continued 
to have follow ups, including scans of her leg and chest to check  if the cancer had come  
back. Es treating consultant confirmed that sadly  one of these follow  ups detected evidence 
of metastatic  disease. And it was later confirmed that she had a recurrence of cancer.
Its because of the risk of recurrence of diseases  like this that Aviva,  like all other insurers, 
would look to exclude claims related to conditions that had been  suffered before cover 
started. In most cases this would  happen as part of the underwriting  process that would 
happen before you take out cover. But as childrens  critical illness cover isnt underwritten  at 
application, this assessment  has to happen at the point of claim.
While I can imagine it must have been very disappointing for Mrs C to learn that her claim 
wasnt going to be accepted, I cant say Aviva acted unreasonably.  In the circumstances,  Im 
Ref: DRN93847013persuaded Aviva fairly and reasonably applied the policy exclusion to Mrs Cs claim. So 
I think it was fair for it to decline her claim. 
I can see that Aviva did make a mistake  when it sent Mrs C a claim form, even though itd 
told her it couldnt consider her claim. But I can see that its apologised for raising Mrs Cs 
expectations and has paid her £200  compensation. I think  this compensation is reasonable 
in the circumstances and fairly recognises  the trouble and upset Mrs C would  have 
experienced by incorrectly  receiving those forms. So I wont  be asking Aviva to do anything  
more. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9384701