K820x#14Complaint
Mr C, represented by Ms C, complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of 
his repairs refunded along with compensation for the inconvenience he has been  caused.
Background
Mr C entered into a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital  in October 2017 to lease a new 
vehicle. He says that from the outset he experienced  the same  fault being  the dashboard 
light coming on saying  a oil and oil filter change is required. He says he has returned the 
vehicle on a number  of occasions  and the oil and oil filter had been changed. On the third 
occasion he was charged for this.
Mr C says that even though the oil and oil filter have  been  changed  the issue remains.  He 
says that he has been  told the issue is due to the vehicle having a diesel engine and the 
diesel particulate  filter (DPF) needing  to be regenerated and if this doesnt happen the fuel 
can become contaminated and a filter and oil change are then required. He doesnt  think  it 
reasonable that he has to drive at a certain speed to fix the fault.
Mr C says he leased a new vehicle as he wanted  something reliable but he has had to take 
days off work to try to resolve  the issue which is still ongoing. He says he has been told that 
further costs wouldnt  be reimbursed in regard to this issue and he is out of pocket  for the 
third repair.  He believes there is an ongoing  issue with the vehicle that was present at the 
point of supply  and hasnt been resolved  through  the repairs  carried out to date.  He is 
concerned that further issues could arise.
Hitachi Capital says that Mr C entered into a non maintained hire agreement  and so he was 
responsible for the vehicles maintenance. It says that it contacted the dealership  and was 
told that the vehicle was diesel and required regenerating and that if this didnt happen the 
oil could get contaminated which it says was what was causing the issues  Mr C experienced. 
It says it was told the warranty no longer covered this issue  as the vehicle now had the most 
up to date software and that the issue was due to incomplete regeneration.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She wasnt satisfied that the issue Mr C had 
been experiencing was due to an inherent  fault.  Instead she said it appeared to be due to 
how Mr C used the vehicle. She noted  that Mr C had been told how to address the issue.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. Ms C said that issues were present from the 
outset and that these werent resolved. She reiterated that the vehicle  was new at the start of 
the lease. Ms C provided information about the issues  with DPF filter being a common  issue  
and said that Mr C should have been made  aware  of this when he entered into the lease. 
She said that the dealership didnt  do anything to ensure the vehicle was fit for purpose.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN98409122Mr C entered into a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital  to lease a vehicle. Under the 
regulations, Hitachi  can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the 
vehicle. In this case  the vehicle  was new and so it would be reasonable for Mr C to expect it 
to be free from defects,  including  any minor  faults.
Mr C experienced an issue after driving around 2,500 miles.  The oil and oil filter were 
changed and he says he was told this was a common  problem  and that a software upgrade 
may be needed if the issue  re-occurred. Given when the issue  arose, and that Mr C wanted 
the issue resolved,  I find that repairs taking place at no cost to Mr C was a reasonable 
remedy.
Unfortunately the issue did re-occur  and Mr C returned the car again  after driving around 
8,500 miles. The oil and oil filter were  change again  and the software upgraded. Again, I find 
this reasonable.
However the issue re-occurred. The next oil and oil filter change took place after Mr C had 
been driving the vehicle  for over a year and had driven around  14,000  miles.
In order to uphold  this complaint I need  to be satisfied that the issue with Mr Cs vehicle was 
due to a fault that was present at the point of supply. I can see the issue arose after only 
2,500 miles had been  driven and has re-occurred since then which  could suggest the vehicle 
wasnt sufficiently durable.  However,  the evidence provided in this case  on behalf  of Hitachi  
Capital, suggests  that the issue Mr C is experiencing is not due to a fault with the vehicle but 
a problem with the DPF not regenerating  causing  the oil to become contaminated. The lack 
of regeneration has been attributed to how Mr C uses  the vehicle.
I understand Ms Cs comments  about  Mr C not being told he would need to drive in a certain 
way to ensure  the vehicle performed as it should. However Mr C leased a diesel vehicle and 
I wouldnt expect the supplier to need to explain about the DPF as this is a common feature. 
It was up to Mr C to ensure the vehicle was fit for his purpose and based on the information  
provided I have nothing to suggest it was misrepresented.
Overall, I find it more  likely than not that the issue with Mr Cs vehicle was due to the 
regeneration of the DPF not occurring and this was linked to how the vehicle was being  
driven. Therefore,  without  further evidence that there was an underlying fault with the vehicle  
at the point of supply,  I do not find that I have enough evidence  to uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9840912