K821x#15complaint
The complaint concerns  the transfer of the late Mr Bs defined benefit occupational pension  
scheme (OPS) to personal  pension  providing drawdown. The late Mr Bs representatives 
believe that the advice given by Portafina to do so was inappropriate  and unsuitable for the 
late Mr B. It is said that Mr B had learning  difficulties and was vulnerable  and if he had been 
seen in person  this would  have been apparent. Mr B had not invested in his lifetime and did 
not understand the complexities of the stockmarket. He did not understand death in service  
benefits and did not understand the charges in transferring. 
background
I am sorry  to hear that Mr B has passed  away whilst this complaint has been ongoing. I send 
my condolences to his family.
In 2016 Portafina recommended Mr B transfer his OPS to a personal  pension with Aegon. 
It was noted that he wanted to access tax free cash of £30,000 so that he could make home 
improvements and take a holiday,  with the remainder being  used  as a rainy  day fund. He 
was advised to transfer to the new plan, which  would have a balanced investment portfolio. 
In 2017, Mr Bs representative complained  to Portafina that it had given him unsuitable 
advice to transfer which led him to losing valuable benefits, and that Mr B did not understand 
the risks a transfer  posed. 
Portafina didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
Mr B didnt  show any signs  of being vulnerable and there was no reason for him to be 
classified as such. 
Mr B preferred the flexibility of income drawdown  rather than purchasing  an annuity. 
He stated he required £30,000 for a holiday,  home improvements and an emergency 
fund. 
The hurdle rate for the new pension to match the benefits  given up from the OPS 
was 4.4%. This rate was achievable. It believes that transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests. 
Mr B was informed of the loss of guaranteed benefits  from the OPS.  He was also 
advised to opt back  into the OPS. 
The death benefits provided  by the new plan are more  favourable  than the OPS. 
The transfer declaration was signed  before the Power of Attorney for Mr B came into 
effect.
Although the recommendation  was made  over the telephone,  Portafina complied with 
its regulatory requirements. 
If Mr B had opted back into his OPS  as advised  then he would have had the benefit 
of the ill health provision  provided  by the scheme.  
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He 
considered Mr Bs circumstances at the time and didnt believe there was an immediate 
need for access to tax free cash, and also that he wouldnt likely have been a balanced 
investor. He noted  that Mr Bs OPS  wouldve  provided guaranteed benefits, and that he was 
advised to transfer to a pension which offered no guarantees  and was dependant on 
performance. 
Ref: DRN97383632In addition, he felt that Portafina used the growth rate as a comparison tool for matching 
benefits due to the fact that the critical yield was too high and so it would not have been  
possible to match benefits on this basis. Further, as the entire process was conducted over 
the telephone, after listening to the calls he believed it was clear that Mr B did not 
understand what he was doing. 
Portafina didnt  agree. Amongst a number of points it felt that Mr Bs objectives were clear 
and that it had made recommendations in line with his objectives. As such  it had used the 
growth rate to compare benefits from the OPS on the assumption that Mr B did not want  to 
purchase an annuity. Overall Portafina  believed its advice had been suitable and that it had 
fully explained  its recommendations to Mr B, which he accepted. 
my findings
Ive consi dered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this comp laint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadl y the same reasons.
At the time the advice  was given Mr B was aged  57, employed and in good health. He had 
recorded monthly disposable income  of £400 to £600 and his main objective  was noted as 
being to access  tax free cash. He wanted  to withdraw £30,000  for home improvements, take 
a holiday and have  some money as an emergency  fund. 
Firstly, its unclear why Mr B did not have any savings considering his disposable income, 
and I cant see that Portafina probed him around  this point. Nonetheless, based on the 
disposable income recorded I wouldve expected Portafina to have had a discussion with Mr 
B about utilising his free money to purchase  the new boiler he said he required. I dont 
believe the other requirements  for the tax free cash needed immediate attention,  and in any 
case I wouldve expected  Portafina to explain this to Mr B on the basis  that it was in his best 
interests to preserve the benefits offered by his OPS. 
In other  words Mr B was giving up very significant  guaranteed benefits with the very real 
prospect that the new non-guanteed pension would  provide inferior  benefits, on the basis  of 
a debatable need. Or at least a need that could  be met, based  on the evidence, from a 
different source,  leaving the valuable guaranteed benefits as they were. Even discounting  
that, it is difficult to justify the benefit of having  some tax free cash when viewed in the 
context of giving up around 30 years  service defined pension  benefits  by far the greatest 
financial benefit Mr B was ever likely to have  and that which  would support him and his 
spouse through their retirement.  Mr B may have had a need for some  cash  and thought that 
would be helpful  but that does not give carte blanche to recommend a transfer  the benefit 
of that has to be weighed up carefully with the disadvantages  of giving up very valuable  
benefits in a defined benefit  OPS. 
Most of that cash was for discretionary  purposes   only the new boiler  could be described as 
urgent or a necessity. There was no balanced  discussion  in the advisers recommendation 
report of other ways to fund what would be a comparatively modest  amount for a new boiler. 
There was only a factual  question in the telephone  call with Mr B about whether he would  
like to take on debt,  to which he understandably said no. Rather  than discuss  why, with his 
disposable income, he could not fund his necessary capital needs, it is only confirmed that 
he does not have enough. When his needs were discussed with him it was suggested to him 
that he would like the flexibility of accessing his pension and obtaining tax free cash.  I do not 
Ref: DRN97383633find it surprising that Mr B said yes to that but what then has to be explained is that in this 
situation that is of questionable benefit considering what is being given up. Whilst there is 
some mention of the guaranteed nature of the OPS there is insufficient context and 
discussion about what this transfer would mean in terms of his future  security  and what  was 
being given up for marginal  (comparatively)  gain.
This all should have been very clearly discussed  and explained with Mr B, and I am not 
persuaded that evidence  that it was. 
Conversely Portafina  were very definitive about the benefits of transferring  strongly 
recommending that Mr B do so. 
I note that Portafina  never actually met with Mr B and that all conversations were  conducted  
over the telephone. There is nothing necessarily wrong with that approach  but, having 
listened to the calls,  I believe the answers (examples of which I have discussed) were led by 
the agent on a number  of occasions and also believe that that its reasonably clear Mr B did 
not understand a lot of what  was being said. I find this to be apparent based on a number of 
his responses to the questions he was being  asked.  
I also dont believe Mr Bs risk profile was likely  correctly assessed. I do not believe it was 
likely that he was a balanced (or medium) risk investor. Mr B had no existing savings or 
investments, no experience of the finance  industry  having  spent  most  of his life employed as 
a caretaker. His circumstances coupled with many of the answers he gave  to the risk 
questions would have  been a clear  indicator  that he was not prepared to take risks, either of 
an investment nature  or with his pension benefits.  
I believe his answer  to the risk question People  who know me would describe me as a 
cautious person  to which he responded strongly agree, more accurately describes his 
attitude to risk. He was also asked whether he was comfortable investing in the 
stockmarket. To which he replied clearly, No. When presented with the choice of 
guaranteed savings or risk based investments, he replied  with savings. He also said he 
did not find financial matters easy to understand and that he would not like to take 
substantial risk to achieve substantial returns. He said he had no experience  at all of 
investing in stocks and shares.  Answers such as this should  have put Portafina  on notice 
that he did not like to take risks and valued  security  this clearly does not indicate that he 
would be the kind of individual that should  be advised to gamble their future security with a 
risk based  drawdown  pension.  
Although Portafina  has said that the portfolio actually represented less risk than balanced, I 
do not agree. The portfolio recommended had almost 50% equities,  about 12% property and 
35% fixed interest. None  of that is risk free. The material issue is that it placed all Mr Bs 
pension income  and security at significant risk. His circumstances do not suggest he wished 
to take that risk, particularly as his wife did not have any pension  benefits apart from an 
entitlement to the state pension.  
The benefits  Mr B had accrued within in his occupational scheme were guaranteed and 
would form a very significant  part of his pension income. He had over 30 years  of
service. Therefore a transfer represented  a very significant risk for him. I note what  Portafina 
has said about the growth rate for drawdown.  However the material issue  is, as discussed, 
that his pension benefits were being  placed  at significant risk. 
Ref: DRN97383634In summary,  Mr B relied on Portafina to advise on the best course of action in regards to his 
retirement planning, and it had a duty of care to act to treat him fairly. Considering his OPS 
benefit was the only retirement  provision Mr B had in place,  had Portafina  given  suitable  
advice and explained and discussed in a balanced  way the disadvantages  of transferring, I 
do not believe the transfer would  have gone ahead. In my view Portafina should not have 
advised the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests.  I dont  believe in those circumstances that 
Mr B would likely  have  still wished  to transfer. So he would have retained his OPS  benefits.
fair compensation
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Portafina to undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.  
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of acceptance of the decision.  
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Bs contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
determination and money award : Should my final decision remain  the same  I will require  
Portafina to pay compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.  
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid within 
90 days of the date Portafina  receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I will also recommend that Portafina  pays the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess  
of 90 days, that it takes Portafina  to pay the compensation from the date it receives  
notification of the acceptance  of the decision,  as set out above.
Ref: DRN97383635If my determination is accepted, the money  award  is binding  on Portafina.  
My recommendation is not binding on Portafina.  
Further, its unlikely my determination can be accepted and then the late Mr Bs 
representatives go to court  to ask for the balance of the compensation owing after the 
money award has been paid. Mr Bs representatives  may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Portafina LLP to calculate and pay redress as detailed 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Bs 
representatives to accept or reject my decision before  20 November 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9738363