K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL  didnt agree  so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Ms T and FICL  have  told us that advice wasnt given at the time of the sale. So this 
means that FICL didnt  have to check that the policy  was right for her. But it did have  to 
ensure it gave Ms T clear enough  information to decide for herself if she wanted to take out 
the policy.
Ms T has told us that she suffered from a medical condition  at the time of the sale and she 
required medication. Looking at the policy terms I dont  think Ms T would have  been  able to 
claim for something relating to this medical  condition   as its likely  it would have  been  
excluded. I think this would have mattered to Ms T as its likely that she would have  thought 
this would be a condition that she may have needed  to claim for. 
I dont think Ms T would have bought the policy if FICL had made  this particular exclusion 
clear to her and given  her enough  information  about it. I dont think Ms T would have thought 
that the policy gave  her value for money.  So I think she has lost out because of what  FICL 
did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Ms T would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN98293592So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms T owes  and what  she 
would have owed.
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL  works out what  Ms T would  have owed each month without  PPI  Ms T 
paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Ms T would  
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
C.FICL  should tell Ms T what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL  to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I uphold Ms Ts complaint  against Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited. I require them  to pay Ms T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829359