K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  also trading in this case under  its Halifax
brand, are holding him liable for transactions made  on credit card accounts  which  he says
were opened  in his name without his knowledge  or consent. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some key events here.
Mr Y says he has been a victim of impersonation fraud.  He says in August 2018; a loan and
five credit cards were  fraudulently taken out in his name. The loan provider and two other
credit card providers have accepted his claim but hes being held liable for balances totalling
just under £41,000 on the remaining three credit cards.
These credit cards were  taken with three different banks  within  the same banking  group.
Mr Y is concerned the banking group is holding him liable for all the credit  card balances
rather than catching  and holding the fraudsters accountable.
This complaint only relates to the credit cards taken with BoS and Halifax.  Whilst Mr Ys
concerns are directed at the banking group and arise from the same set of facts, because
the banks operate under  separate  banking licences, it was necessary for Mr Y to bring  a
separate complaint about the other bank, which is being considered under a different
complaint reference.
Nevertheless, reference where appropriate may be made to all three credit cards,  as
businesses within the same group share  information, particularly in this case  where Mr Ys
fraud claim  in relation  to all three  credit  cards was closely linked and considered  together.
Mr Ys impersonation fraud  claim was declined. He was told that he is being held liable for
the balances on all three credit cards  because;
-all the cards, PINs  and welcome letters  were  sent to his correct home address;
-before  the cards  were approved, further verification checks  were  satisfactorily  carried  
out;
-Mr Ys driving licence and passport details had been provided  over the phone;  and
-his genuine  mobile number was used to register for online banking.
As Mr Y remained unhappy, he referred his complaint  to this service.  
An investigator looked into his complaint  but didnt uphold it. In summary she said that she 
couldnt conclude  that the credit cards were  taken out by an unauthorised third party and she 
thought its most likely that the transactions in question  were consented to by Mr Y. She 
didnt think BoS had acted unfairly  in holding Mr Y liable for all the disputed  transactions 
carried out on both the BoS and Halifax credit cards.
Mr Y didnt agree. He didnt think a fair outcome had been reached  by the investigator. He
maintained that hes been  the victim  of impersonation fraud. He asked for an ombudsman  to
review his complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 March 2021.  I said:
Ref: DRN94372942I know  my intended decision will be very disappointing for Mr Y. Having spoken to him its
clear he feels  strongly that a fair outcome has not been reached by our investigator. He
maintains his innocence and that he has been the victim of impersonation fraud. But having
considered the evidence  and arguments in this case, Im not currently persuaded that it
would be fair and reasonable to say BoS should refund the transactions  and clear  the
outstanding debt on both credit cards. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to assure  Mr Y Ive read and considered everything he has told me, but
the purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them - this
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. So, my findings  focus on what  I consider to
be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take
it on board  and think about it, but because I dont  think I need to comment  on it to reach  what
I think is the right outcome.
Mr Y says other credit  providers have accepted his impersonation claim and are not holding
him liable. He considers this to be relevant and cant understand why BoS wont do the
same. He thinks this is unfair. Whilst I can see why Mr Y might feel this way, Im afraid each
claim is decided on its own facts. So, even  if other  credit providers have accepted Mr Ys
claim and have provided him with a refund, it doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund
from BoS nor does this alone change the outcome  Im intending  to reach  in this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Y doesnt accept that he can be held accountable on the assumption it was
more than likely him. But when I spoke to him, I explained that its not for me to determine
exactly what has happened, but to decide  whether BoS can reasonably  hold him liable for
these credit card accounts and the transactions or not. I described generally, with cases  like
this I couldnt  know  for certain what has happened  as I wasnt  present when the disputed
events occurred. So, where the evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as it is
here. I need  to weigh up the information  that is available and make a decision  on the
balance of probabilities. And determine  what I think is more  likely than not to have happened
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note and accept  Mr Ys point that it is not his responsibility to investigate where fraud may
be occurring. But I think its important for me to clarify that it is also not this services remit to
forensically investigate the alleged fraud nor do we have the power to carry out a criminal
investigation  those are matters for the police and possibly better dealt with by a court. Mr Y
has asked me on several occasions if there  is anything else, he can provide to prove his
innocence. I must remind him that we are an impartial, informal  dispute resolution service. It
is for both parties to provide me with the evidence theyd like me to consider. My role is to
then independently decide what I believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the complaint.
The crux of the dispute here and what I need  to decide is whether or not BoS has acted
unfairly in holding Mr Y liable for the transactions on both credit cards. The regulation that is
relevant when considering this matter is the Payment Services Regulations 2017  (PSRs). In
short, BoS is generally required to refund any unauthorised transactions. There  are some
exceptions in the regulations, but none Ive needed  to consider or that have had an impact
on the decision Im making here.
Ref: DRN94372943Where credit  is involved, as is the case in Mr Ys circumstances the PSRs  make provision
for the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA) to apply  in place of certain sections of the PSRs,
including those provisions  which govern  the apportionment of liability  in unauthorised
transactions. The relevant sections of the CCA  here involve a credit  facility.
The relevant  provision is section 83(1) of the CCA. This says a customer  wouldnt be
responsible for any loss arising from the use of a credit facility by another  person not acting,
or to be treated  as acting, as their agent.  But section 83(1) cant  be read in isolation.
Because as an exception  to that, section  84(2) says that a customer who gives  someone a
credit token (such as a credit card) is liable for any use of it by that person.
Mr Y says the credit cards have been  fraudulently  taken out in his name,  using his details,
without his knowledge or consent. So, my primary concern now is to come to a view about
whether or not I think the credit card applications  and transactions were made with Mr Ys
knowledge and consent, and whether I think BoS conclusion that they were was reasonable.
If Im satisfied, on balance, that its more  likely  that Mr Y had knowledge of the cards and
either carried out the transactions himself or consented to someone else having possession
of the cards,  then I couldnt fairly ask BoS to refund him.
So, having  carefully weighed everything up, and for the following reasons, I have currently
concluded that BoS has not been unfair in holding Mr Y liable for the transactions on both
credit cards;
-It is not disputed  that the genuine  cards  and PINs were used to authenticate  the 
transactions  so I dont need  to comment on this further.
-Mr Y denies any involvement with the credit card applications  or usage of the cards.  
He says he didnt  make or give consent  to someone else to use the credit cards. In 
fact, he says he was completely unaware  of their existence until he received  a 
monthly statement  for one of the cards. Whilst I accept generally  it isnt entirely 
impossible for someone to find out sufficient information to make  the applications 
falsely and this alone is not sufficient  to hold Mr Y liable,  the other circumstances of 
this complaint taken  as a whole make this a relevant consideration.
-The online card applications  used Mr Ys genuine details  other than a different 
email address for the BoS application and a different mobile phone number for both 
applications. I realise that it could be argued that this is suspicious and supports the 
notion that Mr Y has been the victim  of impersonation fraud. But its also not 
uncommon for a person to have  multiple email  accounts and access to another 
mobile phone nor does  this prove  that Mr Y didnt have knowledge of the 
applications.
Ref: DRN94372944-I can see the applications flagged on the banks systems for a review, prompting 
enhanced security checks to be completed before approval  which  included  
verifying the application data with a reliable source, asking  the account holder for 
specific information which  likely would only be known to them  and obtaining passport 
and driving licence details  all of which it did. Mr Y has explained  due to the nature 
of his job, images of his identification  are stored on his mobile phone, as he is from 
time to time required to send these through different forms of communications  
including SMS,  Whatsapp and email  he believes this make  him vulnerable to fraud. 
Whilst I understand the point  Mr Y is trying  to make,  I dont  believe  that is what  has 
happened here. Looking at the amount of detail provided, I think only Mr Y, or 
someone close to him, wouldve  had access  to and known this level of information. 
And I think if this were someone else, using Mr Ys genuine  email address  for one of 
the applications was a risky step for them to take,  as there was every opportunity of 
being caught. So overall, I think its more  likely  Mr Y had knowledge  of the 
applications.
-This is further supported by the fact that Mr Ys correct address was used. BoS says 
each application  generated  three  separate items (welcome  pack,  card and PIN). So 
including the other  banks  application,  a total of nine individual pieces of post were  
sent to Mr Ys home  address. Mr Y says he didnt  receive any of these. He has made  
several suggestions to try and explain what may have happened, such as, unknown 
third-party interception,  a postal  service error, and whilst he was reluctant to say this, 
the possibility  of the post being taken  by friends  or family members. He has 
explained his letter box is secure, but I note he does live with several other family 
members who wouldve possibly had access to his post. Mr Y says his job requires 
him to leave home early in the morning (before the post arrives) and he returns  late 
in the afternoon. His father collects all the post every morning and leaves it in a pile, 
which he checks after he returns home.  Ive thought about everything Mr Y has said 
and thinking about  whats most likely  to have happened, I find it highly  unlikely that 
an unknown third party was able to identify and intercept all nine pieces of post 
before they arrived or that these were all mistakenly sent to an incorrect address  or 
lost by the postal  service.
-Ive also thought about whether a friend  or family  member  who had access  to Mr Ys 
home couldve intercepted the post, but I also dont think  this is what most  likely 
happened here. I say this because  Mr Y has spoken to his friends and family 
regarding this and they have told him that they were not involved; Mr Y himself has 
been reluctant  to accept a member of family  wouldve done this; and on balance 
whilst I think someone  couldve potentially identified envelopes containing  a card 
easily and intercepted these, I think its unlikely they wouldve been able to do so 
successfully for all nine pieces of post, especially given there was no specific  dates 
or times for when these  items  would arrive. So, my finding is that Mr Y most likely did 
receive the mail and so was aware of both the BoS and Halifax  credit card accounts.
-BoS has also provided evidence to show that Mr Ys genuine mobile  number was 
used to register for online banking services.  An automated call was answered  and a 
four-digit code input  and accepted. At the time of reporting the fraud  Mr Y informed 
the bank hed not had issues  with his phone and confirmed  he always  had his phone 
with him. Mr Y has since  told this service  he has had issues with his phone and does 
allow others access to his phone. He denies knowledge and any involvement in 
inputting a code.  The change in testimony  means I cant  rely on what Mr Y has said. I 
also cant see the benefit to an unknown fraudster of going to all the effort  of getting  
Ref: DRN94372945access to Mr Ys mobile phone to register for online banking, particularly since at the 
point at which the registration occurred  the BoS credit card had already been utilised 
to its limit. So, since there is no evidence to support  an issue  with the phone, Im 
persuaded by the technical  evidence that Mr Ys genuine phone  was used to register  
for online banking,  and I cant reasonably reach  a conclusion other than Mr Y had 
knowledge of the applications.
-Mr Y says the banking  group has been irresponsible  in allowing someone to open 
three credit card accounts, in his name, over such a short period of time and has 
allowed them to transact on these accounts  building up a balance of over £40,000.  
He thinks it shouldve  identified this as suspicious and potentially  fraudulent.  BoS 
have said the applications were completed  online  and automatically  approved  by the 
system with the credit limit decided. It does  allow  customers  to have more than one 
card with the same group, therefore, this wouldnt have  flagged  as unusual.  Having  
said that it did apply  blocks to the accounts  and did carry out checks before providing  
the credit  facilities. Im satisfied the person spoken to, to verify the applications, knew  
a lot of personal  information about Mr Y and were in possession  of both his genuine 
driving licence  and passport details. In those  circumstances,  there  wasnt any reason 
for the bank to suspect that it was speaking to someone other than Mr Y. Having  
listened to the calls,  whilst Im persuaded it wasnt Mr Y who the bank spoke to 
during the application process,  I think its fair to say this is not something it wouldve 
reasonably known at the time.  And it doesnt  automatically follow  that Mr Y had no 
knowledge of the applications.  This is because the person may have been acting with 
Mr Ys permission.  And I think this is what likely happened here. BoS has also 
evidenced that it did stop transactions  for security checks, however,  each  time the 
account holder  was able to pass high level security in order to authorise  them.  So 
based on this I dont think its presumption at the time that it was dealing  with Mr Y 
was an unreasonable one. Nor was its conclusion  later upon investigation that its 
unlikely someone  without Mr Ys knowledge  wouldve been able to provide his 
identification and correctly answer and pass its security checks, unreasonable.
-And finally, whilst I know these matters  have been settled separately, I think they are 
relevant to building a picture and need to be taken into consideration as part of the 
wider circumstances  of this complaint. Around  the same time the credit  card 
applications were  made, a loan was also applied for and drawn down in Mr Ys name 
 which  was paid into his genuine bank  account with another bank, who Ill refer to as 
H. Following the paying in of the loan, a number of transactions  were  carried out 
using his debit  card and PIN for the account  with H. These disputed transactions 
were largely ATM withdrawals and payments made to retailers some  distance from 
Mr Ys home address. But these interestingly took place in the same vicinity as the 
transactions made on the credit  cards taken with BoS,  Halifax  and the other bank 
within the same group.  Suggesting  this was also and most likely the same person or 
persons. So not only did the person who made  the BoS and Halifax credit  card 
applications, know detailed information about  Mr Y, his financial affairs,  have access  
to all of Mr Ys post, identification documents, and his mobile phone,  they wouldve 
also been able to get access  to his bank card with H and its corresponding PIN.
Ref: DRN94372946-Mr Y says the card for his account with H was kept at home in his bedroom,  he did 
not have his PIN written down and had not shared it with anyone  other  than his wife, 
who used the card infrequently to withdraw cash for shopping. He didnt use the card 
regularly, which is the reason hed not noticed it missing sooner.  Mr Y has provided 
this service with statements which do collaborate  what he has said about the general 
usage of this account, but hes not been  able to convincingly explain how his PIN had 
been compromised, and how someone other than him or his wife were able to obtain  
it. Nonetheless even  if he could, I still think, on balance, all of the above things could 
not have happened without Mr Ys knowledge  or consent.
Overall, taking all the above  into consideration, I think  that Mr Y probably knows  very much
more about the credit  card applications and the use of these cards  than he has told this
service or BoS. And on balance I think its most likely that Mr Y was involved in the way in
which these transactions  came about  by enabling  the accounts  to be opened, and then
giving the cards (with consent)  to a third party. So under  the relevant regulation this would
make Mr Y liable to any extent for the loss to BoS from use of the credit cards by a person
who had them with his consent. So I dont think BoS has acted unfairly in holding  him liable
for these  transactions, and these credit  card accounts.
Mr Y has made several submissions listing reasons for why he thinks  BoS shouldve done
more and has failed  in its duty to protect him. However, as Ive concluded that I think its
more likely the transactions  were made  with Mr Ys knowledge and consent, I dont think I
need to make a finding in relation to this matter.  I say this because even if I were to say BoS
shouldve intervened (which to be clear is not what Im saying shouldve happened), for the
reasons above  I dont  think  it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr Y has also made a slightly unusual argument - on one hand  he says he has not taken out
the credit  card but on another he wants me to consider a complaint about BoS lending  to him
irresponsibly. I think what Mr Y intends and would like, is to not be held liable for the debt
and for the full amount  owed to be written off. So I think it would be helpful for me to explain
that even if I were to conclude that BoS did unfairly  provide  Mr Y with credit cards (which  to
be clear I havent seen any evidence of). When looking at putting things right, we generally
consider it fair that the borrower (having had benefit  of the money) pays  the principal  amount
back. But to ensure they havent  lost out as a result of the banks actions, we may ask a bank
to refund any interest, fees and charges that have been paid.
In any event, I note initially while the complaint was waiting to be considered  by this service
BoS agreed to place  the accounts on hold (no interest and charges were being applied) and
the debt has since  been passed to recovery  which also means no interest  or charges are
being applied.  I think under the circumstances the actions  taken  by BoS with respect to the
interest, fees and charges has been fair and reasonable, so it follows that I wont  be asking it
to do anything more.
Mr Y has also expressed his concerns about BoS failing to appropriately block the credit
cards when he reported hed been the victim  of impersonation fraud. He believes this
highlights further  negligence on BoS part as it allowed further unauthorised transactions  to
take place  which he says he shouldnt be held liable  for. Ive reviewed the statements for
both the Halifax  and BoS credit cards. The last transactions on both cards  were made over a
week prior to Mr Y reporting the matter  as fraud.  So whilst I acknowledge Mr Ys concerns I
dont think this impacts the outcome of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94372947Ive taken on board what Mr Y has said, that he has never had to spend beyond  his means,
he is an honest man, worked hard all his life, is not responsible for these criminal activities,
has reported this to the police and has gone to great  lengths to prove his innocence.  He also
says he wouldnt have  gone to the trouble  of pursuing a complaint with our service or
appealing to an ombudsman if he genuinely  wasnt the victim of impersonation fraud.
Again, Ive thought about this, but looking at all the evidence and facts of this case, I find it
difficult to accept that all of the above things couldve happened without Mr Y being aware of
and/or involved  in what was going  on. Or that these applications and transactions  were
carried out by a third party, unknown to Mr Y as he has suggested. The fact that a complaint
has been made and pursued, doesnt change my mind on this.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above I still think,  on balance,  its more likely than not that both
card applications  and all disputed transactions were carried out with Mr Ys consent. And it
follows BoS can hold Mr Y liable for them.
BoS accepted my findings. Mr Y disagreed  and maintained that he neither received or used 
the cards, nor did he give anyone permission to do so on his behalf.  
As both parties have  now responded to my provisional decision I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further comments  
Mr Y has shared in response to my provisional  decision, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to alter my provisional findings.
Much of Mr Ys response to my provisional decision is a reiteration of arguments made in his 
previous submissions. Whilst I recognise  his strength of feeling and appreciate he considers  
these points to be valid, for reasons Ive already explained in my provisional findings I 
disagree that these  should entitle Mr Y to a refund of all the disputed transactions.   As such 
for the reasons, set out in my provisional  decision dated 31 March  2021, I am not upholding 
Mr Ys complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2021.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9437294