K821x#15complaint
Dr L is unhappy with the service Inspop.com Ltd (Confused)  has provided and they say it 
has discriminated against them.
background
Dr L has said theyre unhappy  they cant use Confused as intended. They say it requires 
them to specify a gender from binary  options  either Dr (male) or Dr (female). Theyd like 
Confused to admit that by refusing  to return any results on its site (unless a binary gender is 
specified), its discriminating on the basis of gender.  
Dr L is also unhappy with the response they received from Confused when requesting a list 
of insurers that require a gender to be selected  to return a quote.
Confused looked  into Dr Ls complaint and issued its final response. It said it was sorry Dr L 
was unhappy  with the title options it allowed customers  to select  on its website. It said not all 
of the insurance  partners  on its panel currently accept the answer (Dr) on its own so it was 
unable to add this option to the site at this time. It said as a price comparison website its not 
always possible to dictate  to insurers what procedures  they should  follow  or the answers 
they should accept. But it said it was something  it was working towards.  
It went on to explain if Dr (on its own) was an option on the website it would not produce as 
many quotes. But it said as insurers are not allowed to rate prices based on gender, if Dr L 
wanted to obtain a quotation on its site, they could select one of the available titles and then 
contact their preferred  quoted insurer to see if it could change  their title so it didnt include 
gender. Dr L remained unhappy so they referred  their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed that Confused had acted unfairly. To 
summarise she said by applying strict features to its systems it lead to unfair outcomes for 
Dr L. She said Confused  may wish to consider allowing customers  to use its website without 
choosing a binary title or explaining it could affect  the level of quotes that are provided.  She 
went on to say that Confused should pay Dr L £200 for the impact this issue had on them  
when trying to use the site effectively.
Confused didnt agree  with the investigators  opinion. It said it had already discussed the 
issue with partner insurers  but the task to change all systems is enormous  and would need  
to be led by the panel of partner insurers. Secondly it said the recommendation to allow 
individuals to not choose a binary title would discriminate further as it wouldnt allow 
customers to have  access to all quotes. And lastly it said Dr L wasnt  forced into using  
Confused and was not forced to give up part of their identity.  So it didnt believe it had 
treated Dr L unfairly and it didnt  accept that it was responsible for any distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator responded to these points and explained it hadnt changed her opinion. 
Confused replied and offered  Dr L £100  for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.  
But within this correspondence it referred  to Dr L with the incorrect pronoun.  This caused  
further upset to Dr L. 
Our investigator pointed  this out to Confused  who explained it had taken great  care to 
ensure it had used  the correct pronouns and said this must  have  been  an oversight. It went  
on to say it would write  to Dr L to apologise. Dr L didnt accept Confuseds offer and 
Ref: DRN95640312Confused didnt agree  it should  pay £200.  So the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reason. I will explain why.
Firstly I would like to acknowledge Dr Ls strength of feeling towards the matter  and I 
appreciate the upset  caused. But its not the role of this service to make  a finding on 
discrimination under  the Equality Act 2010.  But I can consider  if Confused has acted fairly  in 
the actions it has taken.
Confused has said that in order for it to allow Dr as a title on its own,  it would mean  its 
insurer partners on its panel would have to make  changes which would enable Confused to 
generate quotes  for its customers. I appreciate  this type of change needs to be led by the 
insurance industry as a whole. But there  was a paper issued by The Government  Equalities 
Office in November  2015 which I think Confused needs to consider. The paper highlights 
good practices when  it comes to providing goods and services to people who are 
transgender, non-binary  and discusses titles and gender. The paper says that making a 
customer choose a title  or a gender   that they dont identify with doesnt help businesses 
to get to know their customers. So with this in mind I think more could be done  on 
Confuseds part.
I say this because  in light of the paper and the fact it has said that some insurers have 
started to use non-binary titles I think it could  have embraced this on its website. I 
understand the point Confused has made that not all quotes will be generated as not all 
insurers have non-binary  titles. But if Confused made its customers  aware of this I think  it 
would limit the upset  it caused to customers (by given  up part of their identity) as they would 
have an option,  while advances were made in the insurance industry. Also by offering this 
choice it may also push insurers who have not yet made those changes  to do so, as this 
would set a good example. So to summarise  I think this is something Confused  should 
consider.
Ive also considered the point Dr L has raised  regarding Confuseds response  to their 
complaint. In its final response it provided  Dr L with a list of insurers and said Dr L may wish 
to contact them individually and ask it to change their salutation to Dr. While I appreciate 
that Confused  was trying to be helpful, if Dr L did this it would defeat the purpose of them  
using a comparison website. So I dont think their suggestion was either  fair or reasonable. 
Confused has said that it had been  very careful to ensure the right pronouns  are used and 
apologised for the oversight on its part when is sent correspondence to our service 
addressing Dr L incorrectly.  Its imperative  that all customers are addressed correctly but 
given the nature of Dr Ls complaint and the timeline  of events that occurred I feel 
Confuseds error was careless.  And I can appreciate why it may appear to Dr L that 
Confused had ignored their reasonable request to be addressed  correctly.  With this in mind,  
I do think the £200 is fair and reasonable given the upset  this has had on Dr L.
Ref: DRN95640313my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Dr Ls complaint  and Inspop.com  Ltd should pay Dr L £200 
for the trouble and upset  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9564031