K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Countrywide  Principal Services Limited (Countrywide) mis-sold 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) with his mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr P applied  for and took out a mortgage through  Countrywide  during a meeting. At 
the same  he also took out PPI designed  to protect his mortgage payments in the event  he 
became unemployed. Mr P was recommended  other protection  products at the same time,  
but these do not form part of this complaint  this decision is only about the unemployment  
only PPI cover.
The policy in question  was a regular premium policy and it cost around £15 a month.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Mr P understood he had a 
choice about taking out PPI and there wasnt enough evidence to say hed been pressured  
to take it out. Overall  she said the policy was suitable for him given his circumstances at the 
time.
Mr P disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P  I know this isnt the answer hed hoped for  but Ive decided 
to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
Firstly Im satisfied this was an advised sale carried out during a meeting - theres enough  
evidence provided  by Countrywide  to clearly show this. This means Countrywide had to 
ensure the policy  was right or suitable  for Mr O given his needs and circumstances at the 
time. And it had to give him enough  clear information about the cover  so he could decide  
whether to go ahead  with the recommendation or not. Ive kept this in mind  in determining 
this complaint.
did Countrywide make  it clear  Mr P had a real choice?
I can see Mr Ps main  complaint  point is that he says he was strongly  encouraged by the 
adviser to take the policy out. Hes later said he felt pressured to do so.
Countrywide has provided a copy of a Keyfacts about your Mortgage document produced  
for Mr P at the time. I can see here it set out the details of the mortgage Mr P was applying  
for. And it also contained a section titled Insurance, which said: You  are not required to buy 
any insurance through Countrywide  It also said that the only insurance required  as a 
condition of the mortgage was buildings insurance; albeit this didnt need to be bought 
through Countrywide. It didnt say PPI was compulsory  or a condition  of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN97440962I accept in an advised environment the adviser most likely would have encouraged Mr P to 
take out the cover  he was after all recommending it to him as something he needed and 
might find useful. But Ive not seen enough evidence to say the adviser went  further than that 
and pressured  Mr P into taking out the cover.
was PPI suitable  for Mr P?
I can see the adviser went through some questions with Mr P to understand his 
circumstances and this information is set out in a Mortgage Planner document.  Here  
information about Mr Ps job, existing means  including sick pay and savings, and his 
requirements for mortgage  protection scored in terms of priority, were recorded.  
It would therefore  seem that the adviser  took some  steps to establish if PPI was suitable for 
Mr P. I accept  its possible he didnt take all reasonable steps, but in any event I think  the 
policy was ultimately suitable for Mr P. I say this because:
he was eligible for the cover
he was employed  at the time so wouldnt have  been caught by the significant  exclusions 
of cover around unusual  employment  circumstances.
its recorded on the above document  I referred to that Mr P didnt have any savings or 
investment plans at the time. Mr P has told us he did have some  savings at the time. But 
these wouldve quickly run out if he found  himself unemployed  with a mortgage  to pay. 
The PPI wouldve paid out regardless of any savings and for longer  than his savings 
wouldve lasted (up to 12 months)  allowing Mr P to protect those savings to meet other  
ongoing household expenditure while he found new employment. So I think he had a 
need for cover and it wouldve  played a useful  part in helping  him out financially  
ultimately it wouldve  helped him protect his home.
the cover  appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make it unsuitable for him.
Overall, for the above reasons and because Mr P was taking out a mortgage for a not 
significant amount  - and in his sole name  I think the unemployment  PPI cover was suitable  
for him and so it wasnt  wrong for Countrywide  to have  recommended it to him.
the information
Mr Ps said the cover  wasnt fully explained to him and he didnt know what  was covered. 
I accept its possible the adviser might  not have told Mr P everything he needed to know 
about the cover. But it was called Mortgage  Care and it was described as redundancy only 
cover. And given  the meeting was being  held in the context of his arranging  his mortgage, 
Im not persuaded that his expectations  about  what the cover provided and how it 
fundamentally worked were very different,  if at all, from how the policy actually operated   
i.e. it would meet his mortgage payments if he was made redundant. So I think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  he thought  he was getting. I also dont think he wouldve 
agreed to take it out without having some idea of what  he was agreeing to  and the same 
goes for its cost.
Ref: DRN97440963So while Mr P might not have been given everything he needed to know  about  the policy in a 
clear and timely manner,  I think for the reasons  Ive set out above  as to why I think the policy  
was suitable for him  and because  it wasnt fundamentally different from what he expected 
based on the information he was given  hed have  still taken it out if Countrywide  had done  
anything more.
Overall and for all of the above reasons I dont think Mr P has lost out as a result of taking 
out PPI alongside his mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr P has not suffered loss as a result  of 
taking out PPI, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9744096