K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with the way Bank  of Scotland  Plc trading  as Halifax handled the recovery 
of her funds  when she reported a scam.  Mrs T says because she was misinformed the bank 
should refund the payments she made  to the builder.
background
Mrs T says she arranged  for some  building work  at her home.  She met with a builder who 
agreed to do the work. She said he asked for upfront payments for the materials. Mrs T 
made five faster  payments between 25 July and 19 August  2016,  from her account, totalling  
£3,172.
Mrs T then became concerned about the lack of contact  from the builder and contacted 
Halifax to see if her money could be recovered. Mrs T was advised a scam complaint could 
be raised and Halifax  contacted the beneficiary bank to see if the funds could be recovered. 
The beneficiary bank  contacted the recipient of the funds (the builder) following the request 
to return the funds. Mrs T was unhappy with this. She feels Halifax  didnt  tell her it would do 
this, and she was of the understanding  that this would be a completely anonymous  request, 
whilst the beneficiary  bank checked  to see if there  were any funds available. She thought  
she would  be advised again before any further action would be taken.
Mrs T says as a result of the beneficiary bank querying the payments with the builder, she 
received threatening calls from him and was told the work wouldnt be completed. Mrs T 
says had she known  the builder would  be contacted  she wouldnt have taken this course of 
action. 
Mrs T says the matter was reported  to the Police  and the builder has since  been charged.  
The court awarded  £1,000 compensation to Mrs T to be paid by the builder. Mrs T feels she 
might have been able to resolve matters with the builder if she had been informed of the 
consequences of Halifax attempting  to recover the funds.
Mrs T has said this has caused her a great deal of stress and she would like to be 
reimbursed for her losses  and she was misinformed  by Halifax.
Halifax wrote  to Mrs T to say it was sorry she had been the victim of this scam. But as she 
willingly made the payments and Halifax  made no error in completing them it wouldnt be 
refunding her. Halifax also said the steps it took contact the beneficiary bank and that was 
the only action  it could take if Mrs T wanted  to recover her money.  Halifax said it had no 
control over the beneficiary banks actions after it initiated the request to recover Mrs Ts 
funds.
Halifax has provided the call where Mrs T first reported the matter. Ive provided a summary  
of this below.  
Mrs T explains that she had paid a builder  up front for materials but since  making  the 
payments she hadnt been able to contact  him, and he had disappeared. She asked,  is 
there anything we can do with trying  to get some  of our money back?. The bank advisor 
explains that a scam case can be logged.
Mrs T explains she made five payments and provides details of these. The bank advisor  
asks if Mrs T can provide as much  information  as possible about what  happened.  
Ref: DRN99187412Mrs T says the builder was recommended by a family member  who knew  the builder.  The 
builder provided a quote that she was happy  with. The builder  asked for money up-front to 
cover costs for materials.  Mrs T says they were messed around a few times saying the 
builder was coming out but then he didnt  turn up. And she says she now didnt know where 
the builder was. Mrs T goes on to explain the builder had done some work, but she hadnt 
seen any of the kitchen she paid for and hadnt been  able to contact the builder.
Mrs T says she had told the builder that she would contact the police and bank if he didnt 
get in touch with her. 
The bank advisor says that all the information  provided will be passed to the relevant team 
and they will be in touch  with Mrs T within 48 hours with the next steps.  The advisor says 
they (the relevant team)  will get in touch with the beneficiary bank to see if any funds remain  
and if there  is, they will try to get that back,  but this isnt guaranteed. Mrs T asks if there is 
money in the builders  bank account if she will be contacted again.  The advisor says they will 
be in contact within the next 48 hours with the following steps.
our initial findings
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She thought Halifax  didnt make  any errors in 
allowing the payments to leave Mrs Ts account. She also said she had listened to the call 
between Mrs T and Halifax, she felt it was made clear  the beneficiary bank would be 
contacted to attempt to recover the funds. She concluded the actions of the beneficiary bank 
and recipient were  not Halifaxs responsibility. So, she didnt think  Halifax needed to make a 
refund here or pay any compensation as a result of its actions.
Mrs T disagreed. In summary  she felt Halifax should  have been proactive in educating her 
about adopting this method of payment and that it didnt offer any form of protection. Mrs T 
says if she had known  this, she would never have made these payments. She felt Halifaxs 
complaint handling was terrible and they didnt respond to several of her concerns. 
As Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators findings, she requested  her complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive come  to same conclusion as the investigator for largely 
the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mrs T doesnt dispute authorising the payments in the first instance  and Halifax had an 
obligation to follow her instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. Having 
considered the circumstances of the payments Im persuaded Halifax acted correctly in 
executing Mrs Ts payments to her builder as she initially instructed.
the call between Mrs T and Halifax
Mrs T says she was misinformed by Halifax. So, Ive gone on to consider the call where 
Mrs T reported the matter  to Halifax and asked if her money  could be recovered.
Ref: DRN99187413Having listened  to this call carefully its clear  Mrs T is asking  if her money  can be recovered.  
And Im persuaded Mrs T was told the beneficiary bank would be contacted. 
I agree  Mrs T wasnt told the recipient (the builder) would be contacted but I think  this was 
likely given  Mrs T was raising a scam complaint and ultimately was looking to claim back  her 
money from the builder. If that wasnt  what  she wanted, then Im not sure what  the point of 
her enquiry  was. If the money had been  reclaimed, then it would have been apparent that it 
was Mrs T that had been the one to reclaim  them. 
Whilst Mrs T might not have fully appreciated  the consequences of this at the time. I dont 
think it would  be for Halifax to explain what the beneficiary bank  would do once contacted.  If 
Mrs T had concerns about the builder knowing  about her enquiry, I wouldve expected her to 
raise this in the call with Halifax, which she didnt. This shows me the builders reaction was 
an unforeseen consequence rather than something  Mrs T had at the forefront of her mind  
when making the request to recover her funds. She wanted Halifax  to help recover  her 
money it took steps to do this on her behalf.  
I think that Mrs Ts frustrations now are with the benefit of hindsight  rather than being a 
concern she had at the time she made the initial  enquiry with Halifax. And I think Mrs T 
would have taken  the same  action regardless of Halifaxs  actions.  This is evidenced  by her 
saying she had exhausted all attempts to contact the builder and had already told him she 
was contacting the bank  and Police, before  she called Halifax. So, I think  Mrs T was willing 
to take matters further and she did. As such, I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances for Halifax to refund her losses because of the conversation it had with her 
about how it would try to recover  her funds.
I have considered Mrs Ts comment that the bank should have educated her that the method 
of payment she used  (faster payment) didnt offer her any protections. But even if Mrs T had 
been told about the various protections that certain  payment  methods  may or may not 
attract, Ive not seen anything that would persuade me Mrs T wouldve acted differently. The 
builder may not have  accepted another form of payment and if so, I havent  seen anything to 
persuade me that she wouldve done  something  different as a result  of that, for example use 
a different builder. Again, I think that with the benefit of hindsight Mrs T has had a difficult  
time dealing  with the events that followed this. But that doesnt mean Halifax  is responsible  
for her losses. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mrs Ts complaint against Bank of Scotland  
Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9918741