K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Loans  2 Go has 
said that it doesnt wish to provide us with anything further. Miss T provided us with some 
comments. Although  I am only summarising here what Miss T has said,  I have  considered 
her entire response carefully before writing this decision.
Miss T has said that she had another  high cost loan at the same  time as her borrowing from 
Loans 2 Go. The other lender has agreed that it lent to her in an irresponsible  manner at that 
time. She says she had loans outstanding on her credit file. And she says that she has been 
unable to afford the repayments on her loan and so had to hand her vehicle over to 
Loans 2 Go in settlement of the loan.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have not been 
persuaded that I should change my provisional  decision. But I would like to comment further 
on the matters Miss T has raised.
As I explained in my provisional decision the checks that a lender might be expected  to do 
before agreeing a loan will vary depending  upon  a number of factors. So loans taken with 
different lenders, even though they might  be concurrent,  might  reasonably  be subjected to 
different levels  of scrutiny. I cannot comment  on why the other lender has now decided that it 
didnt lend to Miss T in a responsible manner. All I can do in this decision is consider the 
checks that Loans 2 Go should have done,  and what the results of those checks would have 
been.
Having done so, my conclusion  remains that it wasnt irresponsible  for Loans 2 Go to lend to 
Miss T. I appreciate the difficulties she has faced  in repaying her borrowing, and the 
problems she would  have  faced when losing her vehicle. But I think the checks  Loans  2 Go 
did before  agreeing the loans were  proportionate.  And I dont think  those checks  showed 
anything that should have  led to the loan requests being declined.  So I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
 
Ref: DRN90128992my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90128993EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss T complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Miss T borrowed £1,100 from Loans 2 Go in December 2013. She agreed to repay  the loan in 
monthly instalments over the next three  years.  Around six months later, in June 2014, Miss T 
refinanced her loan and took an additional £600 of borrowing.  She again  agreed to repay the loan in 
monthly instalments over the next three  years.  Both of Miss Ts loans were secured against her motor  
vehicle.
Around a year later Miss T started to face problems  making her repayments,  and her loan was 
defaulted in August 2015.  In December 2015  Loans 2 Go agreed to take Miss Ts car, on which the 
loan was secured, in settlement of her outstanding balance.
Miss Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt  think it had been 
reasonable for Loans 2 Go to give either loan to Miss T. So he thought  the complaint  should be 
upheld and asked Loans  2 Go to pay Miss T some compensation.
Disappointingly Loans 2 Go didnt respond to that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Ts complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave these loans to Miss T required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Miss T. In practice this meant 
that Loans  2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt  cause Miss T undue  difficulty  or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of any repayments on Miss T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN90128994the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Miss T.
Loans 2 Go gathered some  information from Miss T before it agreed the loans. It asked her for details 
of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked  the accuracy  of what  Miss T had declared  
by comparing her estimates to information that was shown on a recent bank statement.
Miss T was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. She would need  to make  monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So I would expect that Loans 2 Go would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Miss Ts financial circumstances before  it 
agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did achieved that aim, and so were 
proportionate to the circumstances  of the loans.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always  enough. A lender needs to react  appropriately to 
the information that is shown by those checks. So I have looked at the information Loans 2 Go 
gathered from Miss T at the time of each loan to see whether it was responsible to lend to her.
Miss Ts bank statements dont show any clear evidence  that she would be unlikely to be able to 
repay the first loan in a sustainable manner. Her bank statements dont show any evidence  of serious 
financial problems such as use of an overdraft, multiple  other credit repayments, or regular  unpaid 
transactions. I think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude  that the loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Miss T.
Ive also looked at a copy of Miss Ts credit file that she has sent to us. That credit file shows that she 
had a couple of other loans outstanding that didnt  show on her bank statements. But it doesnt seem 
that Miss T corrected Loans 2 Gos analysis of her financial situation,  and she signed the expenditure  
declaration as being correct. Loans 2 Go wasnt specifically required  to check Miss Ts credit file. But 
even if it had done so, the information a consumer  might see, when they request a copy  of their credit 
file, might be very different  to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So 
I cannot be sure that further checks would have identified the other loans  either.
Around six months later,  and after making her repayments on time and without any apparent difficulty,  
Miss T asked Loans 2 Go if she could refinance the loan and take some additional borrowing. By 
doing so she increased her monthly repayment by around £80. But Loans 2 Go repeated the checks  
that it did earlier, and saw similar results. As before I can see that Miss T had some  additional 
borrowing that wasnt  showing on her bank statement, but from the information  she gave to 
Loans 2 Go she still appeared  to be managing  her finances  well. I dont  think any concerns 
Loans 2 Go might have  had about Miss T needing to take some additional borrowing  so soon after 
her initial loan should  have  been so great that it should have declined her application.
I can see that Miss T has faced problems repaying this loan. But that in itself doesnt suggest that 
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given it to her. Circumstances that might be apparent at the time a lending 
decision is made,  might alter over the course of such a lengthy  repayment period.  But unless  those  
changes were  reasonably  foreseeable I dont  think that means  a lender should expect the changes 
and factor them into any lending  decision. 
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Miss T. But, in summary, I currently think  the 
checks Loans  2 Go did before agreeing the loans  were proportionate. And I dont think those  checks 
showed anything that should have led to the loan requests being  declined.  So I dont currently think  
this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN9012899