K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined its application for a bank 
account and wont  explain why.
background
M applied for the account in March  2019  and HSBC  said the application was declined  and 
that it was not going to provide any more information  about this.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that HSBC  had 
the commercial discretion  to set and apply  its own criteria about  whether to open an account. 
And it did not have  to disclose them. She referred M to a webpage  link HSBC had provided 
to this service which set out how it considered  applications and its credit  scoring approach.
The director  of M, who brings the complaint  on its behalf, said he did not agree. Hed been 
given the impression that M did meet the criteria and it was natural to want to understand 
why it didnt. HSBCs actions were  against the Freedom of Information Act. And if there was 
a banal  reason for the decline that was not commercially sensitive then this should be 
disclosed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration of the director of M who had a positive discussion with HSBC  
staff in branch  about the application and then thought that M met all its criteria. He wants to 
know what he needs to do to meet the criteria.
In my view the decision about  whether or not to provide any banking  facilities for M was 
reasonably at the discretion of HSBC. Im satisfied  having looked  at what  HSBC has 
provided that it followed its standard procedure in assessing  Ms application and Ive not 
seen any evidence of any errors. M did not meet its criteria. The detail of how it assesses 
applications is commercially sensitive and is not something Id expect it to disclose.  Our 
investigator has already  highlighted what HSBC  does  say about the process and which 
seems relevant.
So Im afraid  I dont have  a basis to find HSBC made an error or acted  unreasonably.  I know 
that the director of M will be disappointed by my decision. If M thinks it has grounds to make 
any statutory request for information from HSBC then it remains  free to do so.
Ref: DRN93144252my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9314425