K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how his mortgage provider, Bank of Scotland  PLC,  has treated him.
background
Mr A has a mortgage with Bank of Scotland. He is very unhappy at the way he has been 
treated and has complained multiple times to Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland sent this service five Final  Response Letters (FRLs) it sent Mr A. In 
summary the complaints covered in these FRLs are:
9 October 2018 - complaint  that he was unhappy  because he felt it hadnt been able 
to agree to consolidate his arrears.
4 December 2018 - complaint that he said hed received threatening letters about  
his arrears and was unhappy because  he was paying his mortgage each month and 
had explored all options available to him. He was also unhappy because he said hed 
agreed payment  proposals with Bank of Scotland but it then rejected those.
7 December 2018  he says he received a phone call from one of Bank  of Scotlands 
advisers and it agreed to phone him back,  but didnt call until at least 34 hours later
22 January 2019  he has had arrears on his mortgage for approximately  four years 
and doesn't understand  why Bank  of Scotland had now instructed a Solicitor. He has 
tried to consolidate the arrears on his mortgage  account and set up arrangements  
but it didnt put these  in place. He says Bank  of Scotland had agreed to proposals 
and then gone back on the decision made. He says he was told hed be called back, 
but then it never called hi, back.  He says he has received badgering phone  calls and 
threatening arrears  letters that caused him a great deal of stress.
28 March 2019 - a follow-on letter  to the FRL dated 22 January 2019
Mr A has raised other points but the adjudicator explained we can only look at complaints 
that we have evidence have been  made  to the business.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Overall, he felt the heart of the 
complaint seemed to be about  one issue: that Mr A is unhappy because he doesnt feel 
Bank of Scotland has done  enough to help him while he has been going  through financial 
difficulties. The adjudicator thought Bank  of Scotland had considered a number of measures 
to assist Mr A. It had agreed  a number of payment  arrangements over the years the 
mortgage has been in arrears (since  at least 2013). It looked like it has tried to keep in 
contact with him as much  as possible. He appreciated that some of the letters Bank of 
Scotland had sent must have been  worrying but he said the bank was required by 
regulations to send  its consumers  regular letters and information when they are in arrears. 
He understood  how the threat  of court action would be very worrying  but thought a bank was 
entitled to take action.
Mr A didnt accept the adjudicators view. He feels if Bank of Scotland had helped him earlier 
he wouldnt  be in arrears  now.  He said he would send  the adjudicator more papers to 
support his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94297162When Mr A complained to this service he complained not just about his mortgage but also 
about his credit card. To be clear, as was the case with the adjudicator,  I am looking only at 
the complaint  about the mortgage.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr A. He has found himself in a very difficult  financial 
situation and is trying to get out of it. This is causing him considerable stress and worry. 
Having looked  at Bank of Scotlands contact  notes with Mr A, I think he has tried to keep in 
contact with Bank of Scotland about his mortgage  as much as possible. It also looks  like he 
has done his best to make his mortgage payments.  I note, however, recently he has hung up 
the phone  on the bank  and asked it to remove his telephone  number from its database. 
Going forward I would  encourage  Mr A to keep talking with the bank. I would remind the 
bank of its duty to respond to Mr A in a positive and sympathetic manner.
As the adjudicator explained  Bank of Scotland isnt required to agree to whatever proposals 
Mr A makes.  It has to make reasonable efforts to help him. Given  Mr As financial situation  
his income and expenditure forms suggest a large  deficit between his income  and 
expenditure - there does seem to be very limited  options available  to him and the bank. I 
think the bank  has made  reasonable  efforts to explore those options with Mr A and has 
provided help in the past. 
I can understand that it is frustrating not to get a call back as quickly  as Mr A would like. But 
overall I think Bank of Scotland  has tried to respond to Mr A sympathetically.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the bank is required to send  letters to Mr A regarding  
arrears. I appreciate these can be very upsetting but I cant agree the bank was wrong to 
comply with the regulations to which it is subject.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that Bank of Scotland  is entitled to expect that the loan will 
be repaid. When a consumer falls into arrears  and those arrears  are longstanding a bank will 
consider whether it should seek possession of the property. I think this is a reasonable thing  
to consider. Again I appreciate that possession proceedings, or the threat of them, can be 
very worrying but I cant agree that the bank was wrong  to consider this. As the possession  
proceedings have been  considered by a court it would be wrong for me to comment  on them  
any further so I wont.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9429716