K820x#14complaint
Miss H complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC:
- was unpleasant and threatening after the end of her interest-only  mortgage term;
- encouraged  her to continue  court  proceedings against her tenant,  but then said it
was going to start possession proceedings.
Miss H wants:
- compensation for the upset Barclays has caused; and
- a contribution towards  her legal fees for evicting her tenant, and for disputing  her ex-
partners claim  to the property.
Background
In December 2002, Miss H took out a 15 year interest-only mortgage  with a bank which was
later taken over by Barclays. For simplicity, Ill refer to the lender as Barclays  throughout.
She bought  a property from her partners father for £80,000. The property was valued  at
£110,000 and the amount  Miss H borrowed was £99,000.
Although this was a residential mortgage, and unknown  to her lender, Miss H didnt live there
herself but rented out the property to her partners father and stepmother, who continued to
live there  as they had done before. After her partners father  died in 2003, his widow applied
for housing  benefit  which  the council paid direct  to Miss H as rent.
Miss H split up from her partner in 2012.
In July 2017, Barclays wrote to Miss H about  the fact that her mortgage  was due to end on 1
January 2018,  and that shed need to repay the capital. Miss H said she couldnt, and she
asked about extending the term. She was referred  to an internal team to talk about this. Its
not clear what was said, but nothing material happened before  the end of the mortgage  term.
In January 2018, Miss Hs mortgage term ended. When Miss H spoke to a Barclays  branch
about it, they found out that Miss H had been  renting  out the property without consent. This
was a breach  of her mortgage terms and conditions, so she wasnt  eligible  to have the term
extended. Miss H said she was in a battle with her ex-partners  stepmother  who was living
there. She told Barclays that she wanted to sell, to repay the mortgage.  But her ex-partners
stepmother was refusing  to move out. And her ex-partner was claiming  that he had an 
interest in the property.  Miss H said shed started  legal  proceedings against  her ex-partner 
and his stepmother in August 2017.
In January 2018, Miss H told Barclays that because  there was a legal battle going on, she
couldnt sell the property, but shed  know more in a month. Barclays  told Miss H it would hold
the account till then without taking  legal action, but Miss H should seek  independent  financial
advice.
There were various discussions between Miss H, her new partner, and Barclays over the
coming months. In February, Barclays told her that it might save money for Miss H if the
bank proceeded  to possession. But Miss H didnt want  to do that, because it would affect her
credit rating.
Ref: DRN97752842There were delays in getting  a court  date for the disputes between  Miss H, her ex-partner
and her ex-partners  stepmother who was living in the property. Barclays  gave  a number of
extensions, but said that if there  was no evidence of when it was going  to be resolved, it
might have to consider  possession. Miss Hs new partner said that Barclays was threatening
them.
In April, Miss H told Barclays that there was a court date in June.  She wanted to wait until
the court had ruled in her favour,  and then shed sell the property. Barclays explained that it
would need to refer this proposal to an internal panel. It also suggested to Miss H and her
new partner that they might look at re-mortgaging in their joint names,  if Barclays internal
panel wasnt willing to continue waiting for the time outlined  by Miss H. Miss H didnt  have
the income to support a repayment mortgage alone.
In June, Miss H told Barclays that after the court hearing, there would  be a trial which  they
expected to take place  within two months, and then the ex-partners stepmother would be
evicted one month later. So she hoped to have the property on the market by September or
October.
Barclays needed the court date before it could refer Miss Hs case to its internal  panel. But
by early September there  was still no date, as the hearing had been referred to a different
court. A Barclays adviser suggested  to Miss H that as she wanted to sell the property
anyway, possession might be the best option. Miss H and her new partner complained. They
were upset that the case hadnt already been to the internal panel. They didnt want to
provide details of their income and expenditure.  And they said Barclays  had encouraged
them to pursue their own legal  action which was proving expensive. They said they hoped to
have a court  date within three or four weeks.
On 17 September,  Barclays referred  Miss Hs case to its internal panel.  The panel refused to
agree to allow extra time for Miss Hs legal proceedings  against her ex-partner and ex-
partners stepmother.
In its reply to Miss Hs complaint, Barclays explained  that this was because the property
could be on the market already. And Barclays had never agreed to the property been rented
out, so she was in breach of her mortgage  agreement. And Barclays  still had no definite date
for the eviction.
Barclays also said that it couldnt reimburse  Miss Hs legal fees. It said it hadnt encouraged
her to take legal action  as she believed. Miss H had also said that if Barclays had told her it
would take legal action when the mortgage  term ended, she wouldnt  have  started her own
legal action in August  2017. But Barclays explained  that her mortgage  terms and conditions
set out that if she didnt  repay her mortgage  in full when it ended, the bank  would start
litigation.
But Barclays  did agree  it hadnt taken Miss Hs case to its internal  panel promptly, for which
it offered her £300 compensation.
Miss Hs new partner  asked Barclays if the decision could be overturned,  and when he was
told it couldnt, he said theyd stop Miss Hs solicitor. But in mid-October  2018, Miss H went
to a court hearing. It turned out there would have to be another  court attendance, which
would be a full hearing. Miss H told Barclays the case  would soon be listed  for trial, so she
said they were nearly at the end of the process and would soon be able to put the property
on the market.
Ref: DRN97752843Miss H also complained to this service. She wanted Barclays to suspend any attempts to
recover the mortgage balance until her legal  action to evict the tenant had finished, and then
to give her time to market  and sell the property.
At one point,  Miss H thought the court date would be in February 2019. But during the
investigators consideration of the case, a court date was set for March 2020.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Hs complaint and upheld it. She thought Barclays
offer of £300 compensation was fair, but she said that Barclays  should suspend any
recovery for 12 months, to allow time for Miss Hs legal action to end, and for her to start
marketing the property if the proceedings went  in her favour. And the investigator said that at
the end of that 12 month period, Barclays should review the mortgage account. This was
subject to Miss H continuing to make payments to the mortgage as she had been doing.
Barclays didnt accept  this. It said that:
-Miss H hadnt obtained the banks permission to let the property, which  was a serious
breach of the residential terms and conditions  of her mortgage;
-there was no guarantee Miss H would obtain  vacant possession  even after the court
hearing scheduled for March 2020;
-the matter was likely to be concluded  more  quickly if Barclays  re-started  action to
obtain possession.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Terms and conditions of Miss Hs mortgage
I looked at Miss Hs mortgage  terms and conditions, which she signed to accept these
when she accepted the mortgage offer. These  include  the following:
Section 9 Your obligations
You agree with us to do the following:...
9.12 use the property solely as a single  private dwelling and as your only or main  residence
Section 10 Restrictions  on letting
10.1 The power  by law of a mortgagor to lease,  agree to lease...will not apply to the legal
mortgage
10.2 You will not, unless we otherwise agree in advance in writing (which agreement  you
must request in writing...) grant or agree to grant or renew any lease of tenancy of the
property or licence to occupy the property, or part with or share possession of the property.
The terms and conditions  clearly say that Miss H had to live in the property and not rent it
out. But in fact Miss H has never lived there  herself, and its been rented out throughout the
mortgage. So I agreed with Barclays that Miss H is in breach of her mortgage agreement. 
And where  theres breach, the terms also entitle Barclays to take action to recover the 
balance  whether  or not the term has ended.
End of mortgage term
Ref: DRN97752844The documents make it clear that Miss Hs mortgage was for 15 years from December 2002.
When it ended,  Miss H would have to pay back the capital she owed Barclays.  It wasnt  clear
to me what  Miss Hs plans  were,  in 2002,  for how shed repay the £99,000 capital  which she
owed. But she knew from the start that shed have to do this by January  2018 at the latest.
Weve been told that Miss H and her ex-partner split up in 2012.  So I considered that at that
point, if not before, Miss H should reasonably have foreseen that there might be difficulties in
evicting her ex-partners  father and stepmother. I considered it would be reasonable to 
expect her to make  plans  well before August 2017,  which is when were told she started 
legal action against her ex-partner and his stepmother.
Whether Barclays was unpleasant  and threatening after the end of the mortgage term
Miss H says that Barclays was unpleasant and threatening after the end of her interest-only
mortgage term. To assess this, I looked  at the events  after the end of the mortgage term.
I didnt have any call recordings for the period. But I read the notes of what  was discussed, 
and all the written correspondence.  Having done  so, I could see no evidence that Barclays  
was unpleasant and threatening.
Threatening implies that Barclays was aggressive and that the action it proposed was
unjustified. Theres no evidence that Barclays was aggressive. And it was factually correct
that Barclays was entitled  to have the mortgage capital paid back by January 2018. Thats
what Miss H had signed up to do, back in 2002. So there  was nothing threatening about
the banks justified business requirement to have its money back. It was entirely
understandable that Barclays would want to get to a point where Miss Hs overdue mortgage
balance was paid back  bearing in mind its obligations to treat Miss H fairly and consider
any proposals she might make if she wasnt able to do that immediately.
Looking at the notes of the phone calls, I can see that Barclays tried to work with Miss H as
much as possible. It didnt  just go straight  to legal  action  in January 2018, even though it had
by then learned that she wasnt living  in the property.
Instead, Barclays suggested options with her, such as a joint mortgage  application by Miss H
and her new partner. It also raised the possibility of possession on several  occasions,  not as
a threat  but as a solution. And when Miss H kept saying the legal  action was progressing 
but there was never any conclusion - Barclays exercised forbearance. I considered  that
Barclays acted fairly  when it accepted Miss Hs refusal to consider possession  because she
was concerned about her credit rating.
Although not going straight  to possession tied in with what Miss H wanted at the time, I 
found that it might well have been  in Miss Hs best interests for the property to have gone  to 
legal action and possession soon after the end of the mortgage  term in January 2018. She 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  her debt apart from selling the property, and the 
records showed she wanted to sell it. It could also have simplified her two personal legal 
battles against  her ex-partners claim to the property,  and against  her tenants refusal to 
move out.
Whether Barclays encouraged Miss H to continue her personal court proceedings
I said that Id seen no evidence that Barclays encouraged Miss H to start, or to continue,  her 
court proceedings against her ex-partner and stepmother.
Ref: DRN97752845In January 2018, Miss H told Barclays that she was in a legal battle. So shed already started
proceedings before she even told Barclays that the property was tenanted.
There was no evidence  that Barclays encouraged Miss H to continue  the proceedings  shed
already started. As Ive noted above, Barclays suggested other options to Miss H, including
possession, throughout.  As early as February 2018, theres a record  of a conversation  where
Barclays suggested to Miss H that it might save money for her if Barclays proceeded to
litigation and then possession, but she refused on the grounds that she didnt want  her credit
rating to be affected.  None of this suggests  that the bank encouraged Miss H to continue  her
court actions.
Miss Hs legal costs
The dispute  between Miss H and her ex-partner and his stepmother was personal. It didnt 
result from anything Barclays  did. And the dispute  between them  led to a significant delay in 
the mortgage being repaid. So I didnt see any reason why Barclays should contribute  
towards Miss Hs legal costs for her personal  litigation against her ex-partner and his 
stepmother.
Other compensation
I examined the fact that it took some  months before Barclays sent Miss Hs case  to its
internal panel  for consideration. I found that it didnt help that Miss H hadnt been able to give
Barclays a definite  court date by that point. It was understandable that Barclays  would have
wanted this, in order to assess when it might  reasonably get its money back.  However,
Barclays told Miss H that there  had been  some miscommunication which resulted in a delay
in going to panel, so it offered  her £300  which she refused.  I considered this was a fair offer.
Summary and situation at the time of my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I found  that Barclays had acted fairly  towards  Miss H. She was in 
breach of her mortgage agreement. And she wasnt living in the property  so wasnt in 
danger of losing her home. Barclays could have taken immediate action  to repossess the 
property, and I found that Barclays  acted  fairly  when  it didnt exercise that power  and gave 
Miss H almost a year to try to resolve things herself.
I said that I understood why Miss H would want longer. But I thought it was fair that Barclays  
expected the mortgage  to be repaid. And I wasnt persuaded that further delay would 
necessarily help with that. The court proceedings could be further delayed;  Miss H might  not 
win; there  might still be eviction issues; and Miss H did say she and her partner expected  to 
do up the property  after vacant possession, before marketing it. I said that there  were  just 
too many  possible causes for further delay in this scenario. So I did not require Barclays to 
delay legal action  further. And although I couldnt know for sure,  I thought it was quite 
possible that Barclays legal action and possession might prove  a quicker route  to resolution 
and be in Miss Hs own interests. So I said that I didnt intend  to uphold  this complaint, and 
that I would leave it to Miss H to decide  whether or not she wished to go back  to Barclays 
and ask whether  its offer of £300  compensation, for delays  in putting her case to its internal
panel, was still available.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN97752846Barclays said it had no further comments.
Miss Hs representative sent a detailed email with 52 points which he felt I hadnt 
considered. He also sent copies of over 400 pages of court documents.  Ive read these 
carefully but in summary, the key relevant points were:
-It had been  in a branch, in August 2017,  that Barclays had advised Miss H to go to 
court. Miss Hs representative said that the mortgage adviser had initially said Miss H 
would probably  get a two to five year mortgage extension, but had then checked and 
said that wasnt the case. And when theyd  gone on to discuss what  the options 
were, the mortgage adviser had advised us court action was the way to deal with 
this matter. 
-The bullying which  Miss H said Barclays had done had been through  phone calls,  
often in the late evening. Miss H said it made  no sense that these calls havent been  
made available to me, because  at the start of every call Barclays had said the call 
was being recorded.
-It wasnt correct  that Miss H had refused to go through her financial affairs. She and 
her partner  had done  so on two occasions, and theyd then paid £500  a month 
towards the mortgage, which  was £100 more  than the monthly payment.
-Barclays had indeed  said the property should be marketed while  the legal case was 
ongoing  but no estate  agent  would market it because the tenant had refused 
access for viewings.
-Miss Hs rep said that if Barclays now took action to possess the property, theyd 
have to go through the same legal  processes  as Miss H was doing.
-And this would mean that Miss H would have to drop her legal case, which would  
mean shed be liable for the other sides costs, and would become bankrupt.
-Miss Hs representative said Barclays should have made a decisive decision within  
months of the end of the mortgage term. 
-He also said that the judge whod been  dealing with the case  from the start had said 
that the March  2020 hearing  would  be the final date and the matter would be 
concluded. So there would only be a delay  of three  months until the case was 
concluded, and then there would be more than enough equity in the property for the 
mortgage to be settled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss Hs representative  has raised 
multiple points in her submission to this service.  I have understood and looked into all of 
these, but I have commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions.
First, its important to set out what Miss H initially complained  about.  The banks Final 
Response letter from 18 September 2018 was about the service which  Miss H had received 
from its Maturities team between 1 January 2018, when her mortgage  expired, and 18 
September 2018. 
Ref: DRN97752847And Miss Hs October 2018 complaint to this service  was that Barclays had:
-had been unpleasant  and threatening after the end of her mortgage term, and 
-had encouraged her to continue court proceedings against her tenants, but then said 
it was going to start possession proceedings.
As an outcome, Miss H wanted a reasonable monetary offer and a contribution  towards 
her legal fees.
Events have clearly moved  on from October 2018. I can see from the new evidence  which  
Miss Hs representative has supplied, that there are complex legal issues around  the case 
which they expect  to be finalised in March. 
Barclays is entitled to have back the money which it lent to Miss H. By taking on the 
mortgage, she promised  to pay this back by the expiry date of 1 January  2018. I consider 
Barclays has acted fairly  and reasonably by allowing a considerable amount of leeway on 
this timescale. Two years later, I find that its not unreasonable  for Barclays to expect that to 
happen  whilst bearing in mind its ongoing obligations to act fairly in all the circumstances. 
Barclays will need to take into account  the current circumstances  when  deciding  what  action 
to take next as matters have moved on since it last reviewed things, and its likely to want  to 
discuss matters with Miss H and potentially her solicitors before making a decision. But I 
think its already shown reasonable forbearance,  and its not unfair for it to expect the 
mortgage to be brought  to an end one way or the other.
Whether Barclays was unpleasant  and threatening after the end of Miss Hs interest-only 
mortgage term
I recognise that Miss H is upset that I dont  have phone  recordings of calls between  her and 
Barclays, dating from January 2018 when her mortgage term ended.  But banks arent  
obliged to keep  phone  recordings for any set period.  Its often the case that we dont have all 
the evidence that wed like, and have to make a decision  on what we do have,  which is often 
the written records. 
I also understand Miss Hs point  that no bank is likely  to record  in its notes that its been  
aggressive or bullying. But what the notes  do show is that Barclays  exercised  forbearance  in 
January 2018  by agreeing  to Miss Hs wish not to go straight to legal action. It suggested 
options, such as a joint mortgage  application from Miss H and her new partner. It raised the 
possibility of possession  on several occasions  as a solution  not a threat. And I consider the 
bank acted reasonably when her legal action kept being delayed.  Given  that the practical 
actions Barclays took were forbearing and reasonable, I think  its not likely that its tone on 
the phone  was aggressive and bullying. If Barclays had been aggressive  and bullying,  the 
actions it took were more  likely to have  been insisting on immediate repayment  of what 
Miss H owed.
Whether Barclays encouraged Miss H to continue court  proceedings against  her tenant, but 
then said it was going to start possession proceedings.
Miss Hs representatives new evidence has said that it was a named branch individual, in 
August 2017,  who advised us Court action  was the way to deal with this matter.
The named  individual may or may not still be working for Barclays,  and in any case is 
unlikely to remember a conversation from more  than two years  ago. But even if this 
Ref: DRN97752848individual did say that court action was the way to deal with the eviction of Miss Hs tenant,  I 
cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable. Its hard to see how else Miss H could get the 
tenant out, given that she hadnt  been  able to resolve this amicably. And I dont consider that 
such a comment constituted formal legal advice.  Miss H went on to get a solicitor,  and it was 
that person who was responsible for advising Miss H on the best course of action.  
As I set out in the provisional decision, the documents I have also show  no evidence  that 
Barclays advised Miss H to continue her court  proceedings  once started. They show  the 
opposite  that Barclays suggested other options, including possession,  as early as 
February 2018. I accept  that it was only when the legal actions were repeatedly delayed that 
Barclays considered  other  options.
So Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision. I do not consider that theres 
evidence to uphold  Miss Hs complaint that Barclays:
- was unpleasant and threatening after the end of her interest-only  mortgage term; or 
- encouraged  her to continue  court  proceedings against her tenant.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Miss H to decide  whether  or not she wishes to go back to Barclays  and ask 
whether its offer of £300 compensation, for delays in putting her case to its internal panel, is 
still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775284