K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  provided a poor service 
and caused delay when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.  Mrs B is being 
represented by a friend Mr M.
background
Mrs B was unfortunately  involved in an incident  with another vehicle in August  2018. Mr M 
on Mrs Bs behalf reported the incident to her insurer, Acromas.  Two days later Mrs B wrote  
to Acromas and provided the details it asked for and an estimate from her local garage  for 
the repairs. This came to £722.48. In her letter she asked  Acromas to deal with Mr M on her 
behalf.
Acromas arranged for its approved repairer (AR) to inspect Mrs Bs car. Their  estimate  was 
higher than Mrs Bs garage estimate.  Acromas said it wasnt  economical to repair  Mrs Bs 
car. So it immediately  moved it to a location  for free storage and disposal. It told Mrs B it 
would deal with her claim as a total loss. But Mrs B wanted to keep her car. So Acromas  
arranged for her car to be returned to her. It deducted the excess and a salvage  fee from the 
total loss settlement.
Mr M made a number of complaints to Acromas.  It accepted that it had caused some  delay  
and for this it paid Mrs B £100  compensation. But it said otherwise  it had dealt with the claim 
correctly.
Mrs B returned the compensation cheque. Mr M said Acromas  hadnt addressed all the 
complaints. He said Acromas hadnt  given any consideration to the fact that Mrs B is in her 
nineties. This was the first time she was involved in an accident  and had to make a claim.  He 
said Acromas  handling  had added to her distress and upset. Mr M said the actions of 
Acromas had been of no benefit to Mrs B. He wanted Acromas  to compensate Mrs B for the 
upset it had caused over two months  and for taxi fares  shed paid while without her car. He 
also wanted compensation for the time hed spent  assisting  Mrs B.
Our investigator thought overall Acromas had done enough to put things right by paying 
£100 compensation for its delays. She explained that we wouldnt consider recommending  a 
compensation award for Mr Ms time helping Mrs B with her complaint.
Mr M didnt  agree. Mr M said Mrs B was faultless in her dealings  with Acromas throughout 
the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2020. I thought Acromas should increase  the 
compensation it paid to £285. 
Both parties  replied to my provisional  decision. Mr M has reiterated some of Mrs Bs 
complaints and raised some new points. But hes said Mrs B will accept  my final decision. 
Acromas raised a number  of issues which Ill address in in my findings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98203522Acromas caused delay and communication was poor
Mr M said there were four periods of delay: three weeks from the date he notified Acromas  
of the incident,  when  the AR decided whether to repair or write off the car, in returning 
Mrs Bs car from the storage company, and in reinstating comprehensive cover following  
repairs.
Mr M reported the incident  to Acromas two days after it happened.  He explained that Mrs B 
had already obtained an estimate from a local garage which carries out insurance  work. 
Acromas told Mr M that it would need to discuss the claim at some point with Mrs B and it 
was agreed she would call the next day. The agent ended  the call by saying it would look at 
the quote and get it all sorted.
Mrs B instead wrote  to Acromas two days later. Acromas received Mrs Bs letter  on 14 
August 2018.  But Mr M had to chase Acromas on 30 August 2018 for an update.  I think  
Acromas caused delay here, which it accepts. It paid Mrs B £100  compensation  which she 
rejected.
Mr M said Acromas  encouraged Mrs B to use an approved repairer. Mrs Bs car was 
collected by an approved  repairer on 13 September 2018. Acromas  told Mrs B the repairer  
would contact her within  five days to discuss repairs. But Mr M said this didnt happen  until 
11 days later.
Mr M said Acromas  had already moved Mrs Bs car to a storage place before it discussed its 
total loss decision  with them. Mrs B wanted her car to be returned to her so that she could 
arrange repairs. Because Acromas moved  it to free storage before discussing the repairers 
decision, this caused a further delay in returning  her car to her.
Their notes show that Acromas called  Mrs B on 24 September 2018 to discuss the total loss 
settlement but there was no answer and so left a message.
The engineers report states that the total loss settlement was discussed  with Mrs B on 25 
September 2018. It reads:
The claimant has expressed a desire to retain the vehicle  salvage which  has been classified 
as a category  N (non-structural) total loss. We have explained that the vehicle will be 
recorded on the total loss register and that a new MOT would be required. A reasonable 
salvage value  for this vehicle would be £320  (27 per cent). PAV £1185 - £320
(salvage value)  = £865 less any applicable  policy excess (- £400 = £465) 
So as soon  as the total loss decision was discussed  with Mrs B, Acromas was aware  that 
she wanted to keep her car. Acromas policy says;
"If your vehicle  is irreparable or damaged beyond economical repair  it will be considered  a 
total loss. Once  this is determined we will immediately move your vehicle to a place of free 
storage
Acromas said it acted  reasonably by moving  Mrs Bs car. And it was returned  to Mrs B within  
seven to ten working days as explained.  Mr M told us Mrs Bs car was returned to her on 
2 October 2018. Acromas  said it was returned on 4 October 2018.
Ref: DRN98203523However, Mr M has drawn attention to a Frequently Asked Questions leaflet Mrs B was 
sent when she made  her claim. This leaflet reads:
I dont want my car written off - what are my options?
We will always  try to repair your car if this is economically possible. We do not recommend  
that cars in certain categories are repaired & safety  is always a major  consideration. When  
you discuss the value  of your car with us we can advise you of options that may be 
available.
Mr M said if the approved  repairer had contacted Mrs B (or him as requested) within five 
days to discuss not repairing  it and the options to her, Mrs B would have asked  for her car to 
be returned to her much sooner. Mrs B arranged for her car to be repaired within  a couple of 
days by her preferred  garage.
In line with the Frequently Asked Questions leaflet, on balance I think  the decision to 
immediately move Mrs Bs car to storage before discussing the total loss decision was 
unreasonable. Mrs B made it clear as soon as she could that she wanted to keep her car. So 
I think Acromas  is responsible for a delay in returning her car to her  in addition  to the delay 
of over five days of telling  Mrs B it wouldnt repair her car.
Mr M said Acromas  had provided further conflicting  information about the level of cover it 
provided while Mrs Bs car was being  repaired.  He sent a copy of the MOT  a number of 
times to Acromas before  it confirmed her cover had been restored to comprehensive. 
In November 2018 Mr M provided Acromas with a letter from Mrs Bs garage explaining why 
the repairs didnt  require her car to be subjected to a new MOT.
Acromas says that the broker  dealt with the request  for a new MOT. Its claim notes  show 
that it referred the MOT  to its underwriter on 29 October 2018 and updated cover on the 
same day.
I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to request a new MOT following repairs  where  it 
has decided not to repair a car. This is a reasonable request to ensure the repairs have been  
done and the car is roadworthy  following an incident in order  to continue  to provide 
insurance. In my provisional  decision I said I didnt have enough to say that the insurer, 
Acromas caused undue delay or gave conflicting information  when  reinstating  cover.  If Mr M 
can show that he sent the MOT  to Acromas rather than the broker before 26 October 2018, 
Ill reconsider this issue.
Mr M has provided a further  copy of a letter he sent dated 15 October 2018 confirming the 
MOT had taken place  and copies of emails between  him and Acromas  on 22 and 26 October 
2018. 
On 26 October 2018 Acromas acknowledged  Mr Ms email and confirmed cover was 
restored to comprehensive. I think its reasonable for an insurer to take a few days  to deal 
with correspondence.  It took Acromas  just over one working week to restore  Mrs Bs cover  to 
comprehensive so while I think it caused  a short delay here, I think  the overall compensation 
I recommended in my provisional decision was fair. 
It took four weeks from receipt of Mrs Bs letter for Acromas to arrange an inspection of her 
car  and a further two and a half weeks to return Mrs Bs car to her to arrange her own 
repairs.
Ref: DRN98203524Mr M said that Mrs Bs preferred garage took two days to repair  her car. He believes if 
Acromas had handled the claim properly; it would have been  settled in around ten days. 
I think Acromas  handling  of the claim caused Mrs B distress and upset over and above what 
would be reasonable. Its clear  from the outset that she wanted Acromas to deal with Mr M.
Despite several reminders from Mr M, Acromas continued to communicate directly  with 
Mrs B. I think the compensation Acromas paid goes some way, but I think it should pay a 
further £150 for the overall  delay it caused from the time Mrs Bs car was collected by the AR 
to the time it was eventually returned  to her. I think Mrs B would  have been  able to use her 
car again much sooner  if the AR had made  its decision about  repairs  within five days  and 
arranged for Mrs Bs car to be returned  to her promptly.
Acromas says; the customer was offered a courtesy car when the vehicle was collected  by 
an Approved Repairer  and would have been able to benefit from this up until 1 day after we 
updated the customer that the vehicle is a total loss.
However, Acromas doesnt  agree that its decision to immediately  move  Mrs Bs car from the 
garage before it spoke  with Mrs B was unreasonable. But as Mrs B would have been entitled 
to keep a courtesy  car until the day after the total loss discussion took place, I think  it would 
have been equally  reasonable for her to collect her car from the garage the day after when 
returning the courtesy car. So my view remains that Acromas decision to move  Mrs Bs car 
immediately and before  discussing its decision with Mrs B was unreasonable.
Courtesy Car
Acromas didnt agree to reimburse Mrs B for taxi fares because  she declined  the offer of a 
courtesy car. Mr M said Mrs B didnt want to use a courtesy car because  she was concerned 
about the possibility of an incident while driving  a car that was unfamiliar to her. He 
explained that despite her age, Mrs B is an active person and attends activities daily.  So for 
the three weeks Acromas  had her car; she was out of pocket due to taxi fares of around £25 
a day.
Mr M said the availability  of a courtesy car was only for the duration of repairs.  So the fact 
that Mrs B declined its use isnt as relevant  here - as her car was declared a total loss. Any 
availability of a courtesy car would have been  for a very limited  time anyway.
In my provisional decision I said I understood why Mrs B didnt use a courtesy car. But 
because one was offered  for her to use by Acromas, I didnt think it was unreasonable not to 
reimburse Mrs B for taxi fares. But I recommended  Acromas pay an additional £150 
compensation for the overall  delay it caused  as I agreed the courtesy car would have only 
ever been  available for the duration of repairs.
Acromas says Ive asked it to reimburse Mrs Bs taxi fares. That isnt what  my provisional 
decision said.
Mrs Bs car was returned  in poor condition
Mr M said when  Mrs Bs car was returned  to her, it was in a disgusting state. The tyres were  
full of mud and there was yellow painted writing across the windscreen.
Ref: DRN98203525Acromas apologised  and upheld this complaint. I can understand  how upset Mrs B was 
when her car was returned to her in poor condition.  The engineers  report  confirms her car 
was in good condition for its age. Her garage confirmed it was in excellent condition and had 
been kept that way for years. Mrs B owned her car from new in 2003.  It was clearly 
important to her to keep  the car which  she was familiar with.
I think Acromas  should pay Mrs B £35 compensation  equivalent to the cost of a valet.
Acromas says: The customer has been  compensated for the delay in responding to her 
correspondence and the state  in which the vehicle  was returned to her following its time with 
(the storage  company name) in storage. The £100  compensatory award equates  to much 
more than a car cleaning  service.
However, this means that the compensation Acromas  paid Mrs B for the distress and 
inconvenience its delay  and handling of her claim equates to £70. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think this is enough.  
The market  value Acromas reached  was too low
Its not our role to decide an exact  valuation  figure.  But we can look at whether an insurer  
has reached its valuation  reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mrs Bs policy says the most Acromas will pay is the market value for her car. It defines the 
term market value as:
The cost of replacing  your vehicle with a vehicle  of the same  make,  model, specification, 
age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the loss or damage  you 
are claiming  for.
Weve checked  the main  motor trade  guides. They provide valuations based on the likely 
selling price for a car of the same make, model,  age, mileage  and condition  as Mrs Bs for 
the month of loss.
These valuations ranged from £975  to £1,395. Where an insurers  valuation is within the 
range of the main motor trade guides, we generally  think this is reasonable. As Acromas  
valuation came to £1,185;  it falls within the range of the guides.
As Mrs B decided to keep  her car, Acromas was entitled to deduct  a reasonable salvage fee 
if it settled the claim as a total loss. This is because its met the claim  and this is a sum it 
would otherwise have received under a commercial agreement it has with a salvage  agent. 
We dont interfere with such  agreements  as long as the amount is in line with what  we 
consider reasonable. This can vary but if its in the region of 30% we usually wont ask an 
insurer to reduce it. In this case,  the salvage  deduction amounted to 27% of the market 
value. So I think Acromas  approach here was fair.
The approved repairer inflated the repair costs - which led to the decision not to repair  
Mrs Bs car.
I understand Mr M doesnt agree with the estimate  provided by the AR. However, I dont 
think it changes the outcome.  The estimate provided by Mrs Bs preferred garage  meant  the 
costs to repair her car met the threshold for Acromas to declare it uneconomical to repair.  Its 
not unusual in the industry for an insurer to decide not to repair  a car where the costs  are 
Ref: DRN98203526around 60% of the value of the car. As the repair estimate provided  by Mrs B was £722.48, 
this means that Acromas  was still entitled to declare Mrs Bs car a total loss.
From what  Ive seen, I think Acromas handling of the claim caused  Mrs B distress  and 
inconvenience. I think it should increase the compensation it pays to Mrs B by a further 
£185. This is £150 for poor service and delay  and £35 for the cost of a valet. As Mrs B 
returned the £100 payment Acromas  sent,  Acromas  will need to send a total compensation 
payment of £285  if Mrs B accepts my decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited  to increase the compensation award it pays  Mrs B by £185  to a total of 
£285 for the distress and inconvenience  is caused Mrs B.
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Acromas  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs B how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9820352