K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about his home  insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc in respect 
of some contents items damaged when his ceiling collpased. 
background 
The ceiling in Mr As living room came down. His carpet  and rug were damaged, along with 
some curtains and electrical  items.  Regarding the contents items;  RSA made a settlement to 
Mr A which he accepted for the electrical items.  And it agreed to pay his cost for cleaning 
curtains, which he also accepted. But regarding the carpet, which RSA said it would clean,  
Mr A didnt accept RSAs offer. 
Mr A wasnt  convinced the carpet could be cleaned and was also concerned  about  how RSA 
intended to clean it. There was a damaged rug too. He had concerns about  chemicals  that 
might be used. He asked RSA for more detail but it didnt provide  any. He also wanted to 
know what would happen with furniture. Mr A then said hed waited too long and would have 
to get the carpet replaced. He also said that was what he was entitled to on the new-for-old  
policy. RSA said it would  offer its cost for cleaning in cash to Mr A in settlement of the claim.
Our investigator felt that RSA should pay Mr A its cost for cleaning the carpet in lieu of 
carrying out that work. He also felt that RSA could have replied more  fully to Mr A and that 
its failure to do so had caused him distress  and inconvenience. He said it should pay him 
£150 compensation. He didnt think it should  have  to reimburse  Mr As cost for replacing his 
carpet.
Mr A said hed accept the cash  in lieu of cleaning but still felt he should get the replacement  
cost. He said hed also accept the £150  compensation  if RSA was made to produce  its 
expert reports to policyholders as a matter of course. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA is looking into whether Mr As policy was mis-sold to him. I cant  comment  on that. But 
the policy, whilst offering new-for-old on replacement items, still gives RSA the option of 
repairing an item in the first instance. And that is what RSA offered to do here; to clean 
Mr As carpet. Ill deal with the rug separately further on in this document.
I see from Mr As letter dated 28 February  2018  that he was aware of RSAs  offer to either  
clean the carpet or pay him £180.67, being  its cost for that work. It was June 2018 when he 
replaced his carpet.  So I dont think any delay by RSA in offering to clean the carpet 
reasonably caused Mr A to have to replace it.
Between February and June Mr A did ask RSA about how it planned to clean the carpet,  and 
he was also concerned about  moving furniture. Ideally RSA would have passed on his 
queries about  cleaning  to its contractor who could have advised  Mr A. But I havent seen any 
evidence that makes me think standard cleaning chemicals would likely have caused an 
issue for Mr As family. So Im not persuaded that Mr As resistance to having his carpet 
cleaned was reasonable. And replacing  the carpet would arguably have required as much if 
not more furniture removal than cleaning it. So Im not persuaded that RSAs failure to 
Ref: DRN99846492answer Mr As concerns in this respect can fairly  be said to have given him reasonable 
cause to replace  his carpet. On balance  I think RSAs offer to pay Mr A its cost for cleaning 
the carpet was reasonable and Im not going  to make it pay anything more in this respect.
Mr A though also had a rug in his front room  which he felt had been  damaged  and needed 
replacing. When I reviewed the file I noted that RSA hadnt accounted for this at all. Detail 
regarding the rug was sent to RSA and it accepted  that this had likely been overlooked. It 
said it felt the rug would  respond to cleaning and offered to pay Mr A £95 in lieu of it carrying  
out this repair (as hed indicated he wanted to replace  the rug, which  he has now done). 
Mr A said he didnt  think cleaning the rug would restore it  not given the colour variation that 
was evident in photographs.  
Having considered the matter Im minded to find RSAs offer is reasonable. It would only be 
responsible for reinstating the rug in respect of damage caused by the ceiling debris. Im not 
persuaded that the colour variations  Mr A has pointed out are related to that. They seem 
more like natural fading  to me. And Im mindful  that, according to Mr A, the rug is around 
15 years  old. I think RSAs view, that cleaning would  likely have resolved the insured 
damage is reasonable. Im going  to require it to pay Mr A £95.
I think RSAs responses caused  frustration  to Mr A though. I also see it emailed him when he 
had told it he would  be away. I know RSA thinks that compensation shouldnt be paid here 
but Im satisfied that £150 is fairly and reasonably due.
Regarding the experts report RSA was entitled  to rely on the opinion  given within  that, that 
the carpet could be cleaned.  It didnt have to share its report with Mr A. I can confirm  though  
that the report doesnt contain much detail  and the summary RSA has given of its content is 
correct; the expert felt the carpet could be cleaned. And the cleaning of a carpet isnt 
something where Id reasonably expect an expert to explain or give reasoning to support his 
opinion, as I likely would  for a more technical issue. Whether Mr A chooses to accept my 
decision or not, I will not be making  any order against RSA requiring it to change its policy so 
that it will generally release its expert reports,  obtained for the purpose of making  claim 
decisions, to policyholders.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.   I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr A £95 in lieu 
of cleaning his rug and £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9984649