K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) about the way it has dealt with a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In early 2015 Mr S entered an agreement for the purchase and installation  of a solar  panel 
system from a supplier called GM Contracts Ltd (GM Contracts).   The  cost of the system 
was nearly £6,000 and Mr S used his Barclaycard  credit account to pay for it.
At the time of sale GM Contracts told Mr S that the financial benefit  from the system would 
cover its cost within around six years.  To cover any faults that might  arise, the system also 
came with a 10-year Insurance Backed Guarantee (IBG) which  was underwritten by 
Enterprise Insurance PLC (Enterprise).
In the second  year of installation the units generated by the system were significantly lower  
than the first year, and began  to reduce further  in the third year.   Mr S sought to resolve the 
issue but found that both the GM Contracts  and Enterprise had ceased trading.
As Mr S used  his credit card to pay for the system,  under s.75 Barclays is responsible for 
any misrepresentation or breaches of contract to the same extent as the supplier. So Mr S 
made a s.75 claim to Barclays.
Barclays accepted  Mr S claim and made an offer to compensate him for losses  as a result 
of the solar panels  not operating as he was led to believe they would.  Mr  S was unhappy 
with the offer and so referred  his complaint to this Service.
The complaint was then reviewed by one of our investigators who liaised with Barclays  
regarding the facts of the claim.   It then revised  its offer having been provided  with further 
evidence showing the timescale in which Mr S was told the system would pay for itself.  The 
investigator then felt the offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr S provided a detailed  response setting out why he felt the offer was unsatisfactory.  He 
suggested Barclays refund the cost of the system, and pay for the removal  of the faulty  
panels. Barclays declined  Mr S request and the complaint was reviewed by a second 
investigator.
In summary,  the investigator said that Barclays most  recent offer is fair and reflects  the likely 
loss in performance of the system  over the original  6-year term of the loan.  She  also noted 
that the issue with the inverter now seems to have  been resolved and should result  in 
improved performance  from the system moving forwards.
As Mr S remained dissatisfied,  the complaint has now been passed  for an ombudsman  to 
review afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached much  
the same  conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN90338062Barclays has accepted  Mr S s.75 claim and made  several  offers of compensation.  So the 
key issue for me to decide  is not whether Mr S has a valid s.75 claim, but rather  what is a 
fair and reasonable way of Barclays putting  right any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  There are a couple  of aspects to Mr S complaint which  I will deal with separately.
10 year guarantee
Mr S has raised concerns that as both GM Contracts and Enterprise  have  stopped trading 
he has lost the benefit of the 10-year guarantee covering  any faults the solar  panel system 
might develop.
I understand the importance and peace of mind that the guarantee would give Mr S, 
particularly as the system  has already  developed a fault previously.  Barclays  has confirmed 
that upon evidence the guarantee exists and formed part of the original  agreement  with GM 
Contracts, it would honour the warranty.
Mr S has provided copies of the guarantee certificates showing the warranty  from GM 
Contracts and the IBG underwritten by Enterprise.  They came into effect  on 5 March  2015 
and expire on 5 March  2025.  So, putting Barclays into the shoes of the supplier as required 
by s.75, I consider it reasonable for it to honour that warranty until the expiration  date.
misrepresentation
Barclays has accepted  there was a misrepresentation, as Mr S was told by GM Contracts 
that the benefits from the system would cover its cost within six and a half years.   It provided 
Mr S with a calculation to show that on average  he was receiving a benefit  of £536.20 per 
year  made  up of electricity savings and Feed-in-Tariff (FiT) payments (from 2015 to 
2017).
Based upon having receiving a benefit of £536.20 for six and a half years, there  would be a 
shortfall in making  the system pay for itself over that time.  The shortfall  is £2,502.70 and so 
that is the sum Barclays offered  to pay Mr S.
Mr S has disputed  that the FiT payments are accurate as they do not include the most  up to 
date statements in the average, and hes raised  concerns the system  is still not operating as 
it should.  He  also contests the average utility bill savings average  used  stating that the 
system performance is likely to diminish  over time.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive considered all of this and everything else both 
parties have provided.   Its important  that I explain its impossible for anyone  to know  the 
exact amount  of energy  usage, costs and savings  that will apply to Mr S in coming  years. So 
I think its reasonable to use averages  from previous years.   I acknowledge the comments 
Mr S has made reference to the calculations being based upon  time periods when the 
system was not operating correctly and to its capacity.
Having reviewed comparative year on year FiT statements, I can see that since  the inverter  
was restarted by an engineer in August 2019,  the FiT benefit has increased back  to the 
levels that were at after the initial  installation.   This  would suggest  to me the performance 
issues may have been resolved, and would  actually improve the benefit Mr S will receive  
compared to what had been  allowed for in the average Barclays  used to calculate 
compensation.  So he is not disadvantaged.
Ref: DRN90338063Barclays did suggest monitoring  the system  and FiT statements for a further 12 months  to 
see the impact and adjust  its calculations if required.  But I dont  think  thats needed,  and its 
in the interests  of both Mr S and Barclays  to bring  finality to this matter.
summary
I appreciate why Mr S is so frustrated, and having been unable  to get support from GM 
Contracts or Enterprise, he is reliant upon  Barclays dealing with things correctly and treating 
him fairly.
As Barclays has changed its position  and is offering more  to Mr S since  the matter was 
referred to this Service, I am upholding the complaint.  But  Im satisfied that the latest  offer it 
has put forward is fair and reasonable. By offering a sum to reflect the projected shortfall in 
making the system  self-funding over six and a half years, Mr S is being put into a position as 
though the system had performed as represented  to him.
I know Mr S has concerns about how the system might perform in the future and thats 
something I cannot pre-determine.  Im  persuaded addressing the issue  with one of the 
inverters has improved the system  performance to an acceptable standard  based upon  the 
most recent FiT statement Ive seen.  If the system develops a new fault or reoccurrence of 
the inverter issue, then Barclays has confirmed it will honour  the balance  of the 10-year 
guarantee  and so Mr S can make  a new claim.
 
Mr S may be disappointed  that Ive not awarded the additional compensation as he was 
hoping for, but I must assure him Ive reviewed everything impartially and reached the 
outcome I consider  to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr S complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, but 
Im satisfied the offer to pay Mr S the sum of £2,502.70 is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9033806