K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been lying about  its ability  to previously  
offer him a lower interest rate. He says he made multiple requests for it to lower the interest 
rate on his credit card, and the bank should have offered to do so sooner. 
background
Mr A made a successful  application to Barclays in 2014, for a credit card with a specific  
interest rate. In 2018 Mr A contacted  Barclays to see if it could offer him a lower interest rate. 
The bank said it had an offer available that it could apply to his account  an interest  rate 
reduction for two years and a waiver  of one months  charges  but Mr A said he was 
unhappy he hadnt been offered that before and complained. 
Mr A told the bank that hed been asking  it to lower his interest  rate since opening  his 
account, and felt it had been  lying to him by saying it hadnt been  able to do so previously. 
Mr A said that Barclays should have  offered  him a lower rate sooner than it did, and wanted 
the bank to refund the interest hed originally paid.  
Barclays looked into Mr As concerns and said the interest on his credit card had been  
applied in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. It told Mr A that offers to reduce 
interest rates werent always available and explained that, as and when  they did become 
available, it wasnt the banks policy to backdate any reduced rates.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr A approached this service. He said hed consistently 
asked the bank to lower  his interest  rate and the bank had lied and been dishonest to him in 
saying it could not do so. Mr A also said that Barclays decision  to not offer him a reduction 
sooner had added to financial difficulties  he was experiencing.  
One of our investigators  looked at what happened and explained that the terms and 
conditions of Mr As account didnt  entitle him to a lower interest rate on request. He also 
said:
the available evidence showed that Mr A had asked the bank to reduce his interest  
rate twice 
Barclays had offered Mr A a lower rate when one was available
Mr A should contact  a particular team at the bank to talk about his financial difficulties
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  but Mr A disagreed. He 
said that hed contacted  Barclays  almost  every single month since  opening his account, and 
felt that our investigator  hadnt looked at the available evidence properly.
my findings   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in this case to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr A said that he contacted Barclays nearly  every month to ask for a reduction on his 
interest rate, but our investigator explained  that the available  evidence  didnt reflect  that. I 
Ref: DRN95899612understand that our investigator  gave Mr A the opportunity to provide more evidence  to 
support his position, but Mr A didnt think the onus should be on him to do that. 
Because Ive not been provided with anything to show  that Mr A asked Barclays  to reduce 
his interest rate as frequently as he says he did, I have  to make a finding on the balance  of 
probabilities. That is, what I find is most  likely to have happened based on everything made 
available to me. In my opinion, the available  evidence doesnt show  that Mr A asked 
Barclays to lower his interest  rate more  than twice  thats not to say that Mr A didnt  ask 
more than that, just theres not enough  evidence to persuade me that he did. 
However, even if Mr A had been  in touch with Barclays  on a more regular basis,  he wasnt  
automatically entitled to a lower interest  rate. Mr A applied for a particular  credit  card with a 
particular amount of APR attached to it, and the terms  and conditions  of his account  make 
no reference to a lower  interest rate being  available on request. 
Barclays have told this service that there are occasions when it has offers available for its 
existing customers,  but has said those offers change frequently  and, therefore, arent always 
available. I know that Mr A thinks that the bank has lied about  its ability  to provide  a lower 
interest rate, but I consider that unlikely  in the circumstances of this case.
However, Mr A has said that he is experiencing financial difficulties. Our investigator gave 
Mr A the contact details  of a particular team within Barclays, and recommended Mr A got in 
touch with that team to talk about  the financial difficulties. Id encourage Mr A to get in touch 
with that team too. In doing so, Id also expect  Barclays  to take appropriate steps  to 
understand Mr As current financial situation  and talk to him about  what  help the bank may 
be able to provide.  
I realise that Mr A will be disappointed by this but, for the reasons set out above,  Im of the 
opinion that Barclays  has acted reasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9589961