K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) refused a claim for 
his washing machine under his household appliance insurance policy.
References to Amtrust  in this decision includes its agents.
background
Mr Y took out a household appliance  insurance policy  in late 2017.  The policy covers a 
number of appliances including his washing machine. 
In late October 2018, Mr Y says the door on his washing machine wouldnt  open.  The 
programme that had run on the machine had finished so he turned the electricity off and 
back on but the door still didnt open.  He says he noticed a very marginal drop on one side 
of the door and with a lift of minimal force the door opened. But, when he looked closer, he 
could see that plastic catch on the door was broken.  
He contacted Amtrust  to make a claim but he was told this wasnt covered because  hed 
damaged the mechanism  and shouldve called when the door couldnt be opened.  Mr Y says 
he told Amtrust  that he didnt believe the damage  was his fault as little force  was applied.  
Although he tried to get a new door part, he discovered they werent available  any longer 
and so the door couldnt be repaired. So he had to buy a new machine.  
He believes Amtrust was unreasonable in making  the decision it did. Mr Y feels  Amtrust 
shouldve facilitated  an engineer visit to determine  any cause before rejecting the claim. He 
feels Amtrust  are just trying  to find ways of avoiding  his claims. He added that a few weeks 
before he had an issue when he tried to make another claim under this policy.
Mr Y complained to Amtrust. It said the cause of the failure is accidental damage  which  isnt 
covered under the policy. It also explained  to Mr Y that the claims handler  decides if an 
inspection of the appliance  is required to determine the nature of the fault and to validate the 
claim. In this matter,  it couldnt do this as the lock was broken before an inspection could be 
done. It says that if itd been contacted by Mr Y when the door was locked, it couldve sent 
an engineer out to determine the issue  and cause. It is necessary  to demonstrate that the 
claim has arisen in circumstances which are covered  under the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. And if it sent out an engineer  after Mr Y had called it, the engineer  wouldn't  be able to 
determine if its a breakdown  or accidental damage.
Amtrust didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint so he came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought the policy  is clear  that customers should 
make contact as soon as possible after an incident takes place. This is a normal  requirement 
to give the insurer  the opportunity to investigate  the issue and determine  if they can provide 
cover. She felt if Mr Y had called  as soon as he noticed the issue of the door being stuck, an 
inspection would've  been arranged. And, unless the engineer determined  the damage  was 
caused by accidental damage  or wear and tear, Amtrust would've  met Mr Ys claim. So she 
didnt uphold  his complaint. 
Mr Y disagrees. He makes  a number of points  including the following: 
Ref: DRN90837992-Whilst he acknowledges that insurers may have issues  with investigating,  he feels 
they should have more  detailed policy wording to cover this. In this matter, he says 
the policy wording  isnt clear and Amtrust  is hiding behind a set of words  which  are 
purposely vague.
-Amtrust has been given the chance to complete  investigations. 
-He doesnt  agree that the cause, at least on balance, couldnt be determined once 
the door was opened.
-His actions were  reasonable at the time and didnt breach the policy.
-Hes reluctant to engage  an independent  company as hes worried  about whether 
this would be acceptable to both parties.  And he says he has reservations about  
paying for such a service  when  it may not be possible to state any reason for the 
breakage which  would  not necessarily  prove  mine or the insurers case . 
Our investigator corresponded  with Mr Y on these  points but confirmed that, overall, her view 
hadnt changed. She assured Mr Y that our service would accept an independent report as 
persuasive evidence  and would ask Amtrust to do the same unless it was able to show  
otherwise. She also explained:
-Amtrust asks the customer to make contact as soon  as possible following an incident 
making a claim likely. In the terms of the policy, it doesnt need to explain the reasons 
behind this. Instead of doing  this, Mr Y chose  to take action which  led to Amtrust 
being unable  to determine the cause of the damage. 
-If Mr Y had called  as soon as hed noticed  the issue then an inspection would've  
been arranged  by Amtrust. And Amtrust would've  met the claim unless the engineer  
determined the damage was caused by accidental damage or wear  and tear.
-Whilst we have  no reason to doubt  what Mr Y has said about the amount of pressure 
applied, the lock is broken and the door is open so Amtrust says it cant now the 
cause - it simply appears to be wear  and tear or accidental damage, which  arent 
covered under the policy.
-We also have no reason to doubt  Amtrust's knowhow in these matters.  Amtrust says 
an engineer won't be able to ascertain whether  the damage  was accidental  or 
caused by a breakdown because the door is already open. And she felt it was a 
reasonable view for Amtrust to take based on their substantial experience with issues 
like this.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr Y that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I think shes  explained matters clearly  
and so I dont  feel theres  much I can usefully add.
Ref: DRN90837993The issue  Im considering here is whether  Amtrust has reasonably declined Mr Ys claim to 
have his washing machine repaired.
Generally, its for the consumer to show  that the insured item is damaged  or malfunctioning 
in one of the ways that's covered by the policy. And a consumer will often be required under 
the terms of the policy to report any problems to the insurer. 
Under the Making a claim section in Mr Ys policy it says,
You must notify Business  and Domestic Administration Services by calling 03300 
555 274 as soon as possible after any incident likely to result  in a claim under this 
insurance. Opening  hours: Monday to Friday  9:00am - 5:00pm excluding  bank  
holidays
Where the Claims Handler decides that an inspection of the Appliance is required to 
determine the nature of the fault and to validate  the claim, they will ask You for 
payment of the Excess
And under the Claims conditions section it says,
All claims must be notified to the Claims Handler to establish the cause within 21 
days of Breakdown.
Once the matter  has been reported to it, the insurer will often appoint  a technician or 
engineer to assess whats caused  the problem so that it can decide if the claim  is covered  
under the terms  of the policy. This is common amongst insurance policies like this.
Mr Y didnt follow the terms of the policy by calling Amtrust when the washing machine door 
wouldnt open. Instead, he tried to open the door and says he applied  light pressure to do 
this.
In situations like this we need to think about whether the claim not being  reported by Mr Y 
when the door wouldnt  open  has affected  Amtrusts ability to deal with things. Amtrust says 
it has. It says that an engineer cant now determine whether the problem in the door not 
opening was caused by accidental damage, wear and tear or a breakdown. And Mr Y is only 
covered for a breakdown  under his policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think that - on balance  - Mr Ys actions have prejudiced 
Amtrusts ability to assess the cause  of the problem.  It follows  that I think  Amtrust has 
reasonably declined Mr Ys claim.
I know Mr Y will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Amtrust  can do for him.
I note that Mr Y has considered obtaining  a report from an independent  technician  or 
engineer. However,  even  if Mr Y did this and the report said the cause of the door failing to 
open was due something which is covered by the policy, Mr Ys washing machine might still 
have a broken  lock. And this is something which he says that cant be replaced.
Ref: DRN90837994Finally, I note that Mr Y has referred to another claim he made under this policy which  was 
declined. That isnt something I can consider in this complaint. If hes unhappy then hell 
need to raise this with the insurer in the first instance. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9083799