K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background 
Mr and Mrs B took out the policy in 2005.  The PPI was in Mr Bs name only, as the first 
named person on the agreement, and it was taken  out to cover  a loan secured against their 
home.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt give their consent  to take out the PPI and they didnt even 
know they had it. But they havent  been able to recall  how the PPI was sold to them and they 
havent told us much more about what happened at the time. On the other hand, Halifax 
says it wouldve discussed  the PPI in detail and would have highlighted Mr Bs need  for the 
policy before  obtaining  his consent to add it to the agreement. Ive thought about what both 
parties have said and have considered the evidence available  from the time of sale to decide  
what I think is more likely  to have happened.
Halifax has provided Mr and Mrs Bs loan agreement where PPI is set out on page 3, the 
same page  that Mr and Mrs B signed to agree to be bound  by its terms. On this page the 
PPI is described as Personal Loan  Repayment  Cover and the monthly  cost of the loan, PPI 
and the loan plus the PPI is set out here.  Halifax has also provided  its Demands and Needs 
Statement which suggests that the PPI would have been discussed in detail  in order  for 
Halifax to reach the recommendation  that Mr B had a need for the policy.  So I think  Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve  known  about the PPI at the time.  And without stronger evidence to the 
contrary, I think its more likely  than not that they chose to take it out, knowing they had the 
option to decline  it.
As Ive said above,  Halifax has provided  a Demands and Needs Statement which suggests it 
advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the PPI. And although Mr and Mrs B say that they werent 
given any advice, based on this evidence, I think they were. 
An advised  sale Halifax  were required  to take reasonable  steps to ensure  the PPI was 
suitable for Mr B (as the insured party).  And based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at 
the time I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and there  seems  to have been a need for the cover.   
Ref: DRN93524162Mr and Mrs B say that Mr B wouldve  had some sick pay, and that they had between  6 and 
12 months worth of savings at the time. But the Demands  and Needs Statement suggests  
that Mr B told Halifax he had no existing cover  that he couldve used to protect this 
borrowing. But Ive considered that even  if they did have some  sick pay and savings, they 
were taking out a financial  commitment  secured  against their home. So I think it would have 
been important  to have some  protection in place to ensure the repayments were met. And 
the PPI couldve  provided up to 12 months  worth of cover if Mr B was made  redundant, and 
up to 60 months cover  if he had an accident  or was off sick from work.  So I think  they would 
have found this cover useful in the event  Mr B was off work suddenly.        
Ive seen that the monthly cost of the PPI was set out in the loan agreement on the same  
page that Mr and Mrs B signed. But I think its possible some of the other information about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But the evidence  suggests they chose to 
take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But it has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. I understand Halifax  has sent a 
cheque to Mr and Mrs B for this amount. Mr and Mrs B should contact Halifax if they need  
the cheque reissued.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, I dont uphold  this complaint. 
        
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9352416