K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes  their agents.
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  with another  car on 8 December 2018. He claimed on his 
policy with esure. Mr Ss car was deemed a total loss. esure  offered to pay Mr S the market 
value of his car to settle the claim.  Mr S wasnt happy with the amount esure  initially  offered. 
But esure increased the amount to £21,250  which Mr S initially accepted. But he later said 
he felt pressured  into accepting. Under the policy  there was an excess of £700 Mr S had to 
pay. That was to be deducted  from the settlement amount.
Mr S was unhappy that esure held him at fault for the accident.  He said he had an 
independent witness  who would support his version of events. He also said the incident was 
covered by CCTV which again  would help his case. 
Mr S also complained about how esure  dealt with his request to buy the salvage of his car. 
He said he was asked  to pay more than the amount esure would have sold the car to their 
salvage agent. Mr S added that while the car was in the care of esures agents, parts were 
removed from it, namely a headlight and a badge. He also said further damage was caused  
to the car that wasnt accident related.
esure looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr S therefore brought  his complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators  looked into it. He felt that esures decision to hold 
Mr S liable for the accident was fair. He also felt they offered  him a fair settlement for the 
loss of his car. But he didnt think  esure treated Mr S fairly  when  it came  to selling him the 
salvage of the car. Our investigator asked for evidence in the form of the agreement 
between esure and their salvage agent to satisfy our service how much esure would have 
got by selling the car to the salvage  agent.  But esure said they couldnt provide that 
evidence as it was private  and confidential.  Our investigator said that in the absence  of the 
required evidence he would propose esure  should charge Mr S 20% of the cars market 
value as the salvage price. esure  said that wasnt fair as they would have got 35% but 
refused to provide that evidence given it was confidential. Without  that evidence  our 
investigator said that esure should  charge Mr S 20% of the cars market  value as the 
salvage cost.  Our investigator also suggested  that esure should pay Mr S £350  
compensation to reflect  the distress and inconvenience he experienced and also to account  
for the parts missing  from the car since its been  with esures agents. As esure didnt agree 
with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  it 
in part. Ill explain why.
liability for the accident
Under the policy esure have the discretion to settle  claims as they feel appropriate. But I 
expect them to exercise that discretion  in a fair and reasonable way. Its not my role to 
Ref: DRN97966542decide which driver was responsible for the accident. I can only look to see if esures  
decision to hold Mr S liable was reasonable.
Mr S was leaving  the car park of a garage  and was intending to drive onto a two-way  main 
road. He wanted  to get onto the lane going towards his right which  meant he had to drive 
across two lanes first that were travelling left across the front of his car. He said he edged 
onto the road when  a van in the inside lane signalled for him to move  out. As he did that I 
understand another car in the outer  lane crashed into Mr Ss car. esure spoke  with the 
witness Mr S put forward who said Mr Ss car was moving at the time and not stationary. 
esure concluded that while the other driver  could  have been more  careful,  ultimately Mr S 
was driving onto a main  road into the path of established, correctly proceeding vehicles. 
esure also asked for the CCTV soon after being  told about  it by Mr S. But the owner of the 
CCTV said it was no longer available as its only kept for seven days.  I dont think  there  was 
an unreasonable delay on esures part. Im aware that most insurers  and I believe the 
courts  will say that its the responsibility of the driver crossing lanes of moving traffic to 
ensure that it is safe to do so. And that would mean  that Mr S would be required to wait for a 
sufficient gap between  the traffic in both lanes  before he made his manoeuvre. But it seems 
that the accident happened because that gap wasn't available. I therefore think esures 
decision to accept liability on Mr Ss behalf  was reasonable. Im therefore not upholding this 
aspect of the complaint.
total loss valuation
Mr Ss policy  says that if his car is deemed a total loss, esure  must  pay him its market  value 
of it at the time of the loss. The starting  point  when trying to establish the market value of a 
car is to look at the industry accepted trade guides  of which  there are four. The guides  are 
based on extensive nationwide research  of likely  selling prices.  esure looked at three of the 
guides that valued the car at £19,792,  £20,770 and £21,045. Our investigator looked at a 
fourth guide which valued the car at £22,874. Its usual that the trade guides give varying  
valuations and where thats the case we think its fair to average  the valuations  given. The 
average of the four guides  is £21,120.25. esures  final offer was £21,250 which  is slightly 
over the average  of the guides.  I therefore think its valuation is reasonable. Having listened 
to the call between  Mr S and esures engineer where the final valuation offer was made, I 
dont think that the engineer pressured Mr S in anyway. Im therefore not upholding this part 
of the complaint as esures  final valuation  was reasonable.
salvage price and compensation
During the call between Mr S and esures  engineer where the final valuation was given Mr S 
said he wanted to keep the cars salvage.  He asked the engineer  how much that would cost 
to see if it would be worth him doing up the car. The engineer said it would probably be 
around £9,500  and gave  his opinion that it wouldnt be cost effective for Mr S to repair the 
car. That was just under 45% of the final valuation.
Soon after Mr S saw his car for sale on the salvage  experts website for almost  half the price 
esures engineer  quoted him. Mr S wasnt happy  that the car was put up for sale before he 
had been paid his settlement. He also felt he had been mis-informed  about the price of the 
salvage. esure explained that as their agent  sold cars through  an auction the lower price  
Mr S saw was the start price for the bidding and that his car was desirable and would have 
sold for substantially more. Mr S asked  for his car to be removed from the salvage  agents 
website. 
Ref: DRN97966543esure said that the car became their property  on 18 January 2019,  which  is the date on 
which Mr S accepted esures  valuation to settle the claim. But I dont agree with esure. The 
car only becomes  their property once the settlement is paid to Mr S. And at the time the car 
was advertised on the salvage agents  website that hadnt happened.
Where an insurer pays  to settle the total loss of a car, as in this case, the car becomes  their 
property. So, they are entitled to do with the car as they please. Often they sell the cars 
salvage to a salvage agent. The salvage  agent  might sell the car as is or they might  break  it 
into parts  and sell it on. That is a matter for them. But its reasonable and understandable 
that the insurer will want to get as much  as possible for the salvage  to offset against their 
costs in settling  the claim. An insurer will often have  an arrangement  with a salvage agent  for 
disposing of the salvage and the insurer will get an amount in accordance with the contract 
agreed. This is sometimes a percentage of the cars  pre-accident market  value  and 
sometimes a proportion  of the amount the agent  sells it for at auction.
But where a policyholder asks to buy the salvage  of their car and an insurer agrees to that, 
we expect the insurer to charge a reasonable amount.  That amount can be what the insurer  
would have received from the salvage agent when disposing the car under their contract. 
Once Mr S raised his complaint esure  said they were prepared to sell the salvage to Mr S for 
£7,437.50. Thats 35% of the cars pre-accident market value.
I have to be satisfied  that the amount esure  have asked for is fair and reasonable. And our 
service looks at each case on its own merits as different insurers  have  different  
arrangements and rates with their salvage agents.  If esure had received 35% of the cars 
market value from its salvage agent then its reasonable that it charged  Mr S that sum. But 
we need to be satisfied that esure  would  have received this amount from their salvage  
agent.
esure told our investigator that they cant  disclose to us the contract they have  with their 
salvage agent because its private  and confidential.  But as our investigator correctly said,  as 
Mr S had complained  about this specific issue, it was important for us to see the evidence  
esure relied  on. He also gave esure assurances that we would handle any sensitive 
information with care and in confidence, and that we wouldnt disclose it to any third party, 
including Ms S. Our investigator requested the evidence  several  times and gave repeated 
assurances. But esure still refused  to provide it. Our investigator then said he would  propose  
what he deemed to be reasonable, namely 20% which esure objected to. But I think our 
investigators position is reasonable. esure haven't satisfied  me, with evidence, that they 
would have received the higher sum.  So, like our investigator,  I have to consider what is a 
reasonable amount. And Im aware  that many other insurers will charge around  20% of a 
cars salvage value  - for a car of a similar market value to Mr S, so I think charging 20% of 
the cars  market value  is reasonable. I therefore  uphold this aspect of the complaint. And I 
require esure to pay Mr S the cars pre-accident market value of £21,250. But from that 
esure should deduct £4,250 which is 20% of £21,250. esure should also deduct the policy  
excess of £700.  The final amount is £16,300 (£21,250  £4,250  £700).
Finally, Mr S has shown me photos that a headlamp and a badge on the car that were still 
on the car after the accident later went missing.  Mr S said its common practice for parts  to 
be removed from cars before they are put up for sale by salvage agents.  Mr S also said the 
car suffered further damage after the accident. esure said there was insufficient evidence  to 
prove parts were intentionally  removed and they could have fallen off during transportation. 
But until the settlement  was made  the car remained Mr Ss property. So, esure and their 
agents had an obligation to ensure the car didnt  deteriorate any further.  And I think  esures  
Ref: DRN97966544failure to do so will have  added to Mr Ss distress and inconvenience.  So to address that I 
require esure to pay him £350 compensation. That compensation takes into account the 
impact of the distress  and inconvenience and the missing parts  on the car. Had esure 
provided the evidence our investigator asked for some 10 months ago I think  this matter  
could have been resolved  much earlier. But instead it has prolonged matters  which  has 
meant Mr S hasnt been able to repair his car and move on.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require esure Insurance  
Limited to:
Pay Mr S £16,300  to settle his claim which is the total loss figure after the deduction 
of 20% for the cars salvage and the policy excess.
Pay Mr S £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr S has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
1 If esure consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr S how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9796654