K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999. 
Nationwides records show that Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgage and PPI by phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage  application  which Mr and Mrs D signed. Theres a 
section headed  Your insurance  requirements  which includes a section on PPI. 
Mortgage cover of £200 per month was selected. And it said additional cover of £100 per 
month was required, making total monthly  cover of £300. The benefit was split equally 
between Mr and Mrs D. 
So it looks as if there was some discussion about PPI, during  the phone  call, and 
Mr and Mrs D chose the level of cover that they wanted. Immediately below the details of 
cover, it explained that if cover wasnt required, Mr and Mrs D would be responsible  for 
their monthly repayments if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness,  or if 
they became unemployed.
I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide hasnt been able to provide  a recording of 
the phone  call in which  Mr and Mrs D applied for the mortgage and PPI, as the sale took 
place around 20 years ago. I cant know exactly what was said. But having  considered  
everything thats been provided,  Im satisfied,  on balance, that Nationwide made Mr and 
Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it  although  I can 
understand how they may no longer remember this, so many  years later.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt  have to check if it was 
suitable for them. It was for Mr and Mrs D to decide  whether  they wished to take the 
cover, knowing what alternative means theyd have had of making their monthly 
mortgage payments if either or both of them had been off sick or lost their job.
The premium for the PPI was shown in the mortgage offer.  So I think Mr and Mrs D 
would have known  how much theyd need  to pay for the policy.
Ref: DRN91546002Its possible  Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover  (for 
example, unusual  employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). But based 
on the information theyve provided,  its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have  been  affected 
by any of these.  So I dont  think its likely that better information would have put them off 
taking out the PPI. And since they were paying  for the policy monthly,  they could have 
cancelled it at any time if they no longer  wanted it, or if their circumstances  changed.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ds comments, including  what theyve said about  
having taken out a single premium policy. But they paid for the policy monthly,  by direct 
debit, and no interest was charged  on the premiums. So this doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.  
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154600