K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have unfairly  
declined his claim made under a legal expenses  insurance policy.
background
In January 2019 Mr S wanted to take legal action  for damage to his flat and nuisance caused  
by a leaking roof. He proposed action  be started  against the managing agent of his block 
who he says is responsible for maintenance of the roof.  He made a claim to DAS who 
underwrite his legal  expenses insurance. 
DAS went on to decline the claim. They  highlighted  that Mr S was a tenant  in the flat and 
relied on certain policy terms and conditions to support their decision. Mr S disagreed;  he 
thinks his policy does  provide cover  in his circumstances  and complained. When DAS 
maintained their position, Mr S referred  his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded the 
claim had been  fairly declined. So Mr S asked that an ombudsman  review his complaint. On 
reviewing the complaint,  I came to the same outcome as our investigator, but my reasoning 
was different. So I got in touch with both parties to explain why and to give a further 
opportunity to comment. In summary I said:
No insurance policy will cover all possible  eventualities. There  are always terms and 
conditions which outline the cover available.  The relevant  part of Mr Ss policy is the 
property protection  section. This says:
We will cover the costs and expenses of your legal rights in a civil dispute relating to your 
principal home and holiday home, or personal  possessions, that you own or are responsible 
for
With regard to any damage caused   as a tenant   Mr S neither owns  nor is responsible  for 
the damage caused by a leaking roof. So based  on this, I dont think it can fairly be said that 
the policy provides  cover  in these circumstances.
The same section of the policy goes on to say that there is cover for legal action following A 
legal nuisance (meaning  any unlawful interference with your use or enjoyment of your land, 
or some right over it) Please note that you must  have established the legal ownership or 
right to the land that is the subject  of the dispute.  But  this section of the policy  also includes 
an exclusion  which says DAS wont cover  Any claim relating to a contract entered into by 
you.
Mr S says that his right to the land is established  through his tenancy agreement. And he 
points out that his tenancy agreement is with his landlord, not the management company for 
the block, with whom he has no contract. 
I explained to Mr S that as he says his right to the land is established  by his tenancy 
agreement (a contract he entered into),  I think the exclusion mentioned above is applicable. I 
dont think it can be fairly  said that his tenancy  contract is unrelated to the claim he made, 
as without it, Mr S would have no right over the land in dispute. It doesnt  matter that the 
contract isnt with the proposed defendant. The contract is still related to the claim.
Ref: DRN97220862DAS agreed with what Id said.  Mr S disagreed  and responded  with some further comments  
which Ill address below. Now both parties  have had the opportunity  to comment,  I can go 
ahead with my final decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
deviate from the outcome Ive previously outlined.  Let me explain why.
Mr S said the contract with his landlord  gave him no rights to enjoy his land without external 
nuisances; and as such it cant  be related.  He also said that this interpretation would  render 
the property protection section of the policy worthless as all property relates  to a contract in 
some way - whether that is a tenancy agreement or purchase agreement.   Mr S is also 
concerned about  the precedent my decision might set.
Our service considers each complaint on its individual  circumstances;  we dont work on a 
precedent basis. And in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint, Im satisfied that the 
exclusion in question does apply for the reasons given  above. So I dont think  DAS have 
acted unfairly when declining the claim.  Ultimately,  the exclusion only requires that a claim 
relates to a contract  Mr S has entered into. And whilst  I accept that most property is acquired 
through a purchase agreement, I think that is a step further removed.  Especially in 
comparison to a tenancy agreement which would generally be ongoing  and renewable. 
Looking at complaint  as a whole, I think DAS have fairly declined  Mr Ss claim and so Im not 
directing that they need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9722086