K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as TSB (Lloyds) at the time mis-sold  her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when  she took out a credit card.
background
In March 2019, I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained  why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.
I asked both parties to let me know if they had any further information they wanted to add 
before I made my final decision.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Lloyds didnt provide any further information  for me to consider before making my final 
decision. Mrs M was unhappy with my decision.  She said in summary:
She thought  I was taking the side of Lloyds when I decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. And in making my decision on balance of probabilities  Mrs M asked why 
I had swung in favour  of Lloyds and not her considering there  was no evidence.
As Lloyds had provided no evidence of Mrs M signing up to the PPI - it was hard to 
believe I could find that she probably did sign up for the cover.
Mrs M challenged the dates of sale and has questioned  the policy document.
Mrs M has asked  how she could have  known to query the PPI payments on the credit 
card statements.
Mrs M had taken  advice from the bank  - so it would have known about her 
employment situation. She was entitled to benefits  from work  but still Lloyds 
recommended the PPI for which she had no need.
I couldnt possibly  have any idea of her household income at the time so how could I 
find that the insurance might have come in useful.
Having studied  case histories of numerous PPI claims  Mrs M thought she was 
being singled out.
Having re- considered everything  Mrs M has said I am sorry to disappoint her but Ive 
decided not to uphold her complaint. I realise Mrs M feels very strongly about her complaint  
and although I havent included all of the points Mrs M made in summarising the response  
she made to my provisional  decision, I want to reassure her that I have considered  
everything she has said. I also want to assure Mrs M that in making my decision I am 
impartial. 
Ref: DRN91935532As I explained in my provisional decision where there is limited information, as is the case 
here, from both parties, I still need  to reach a decision. That is based on what I think  is more 
likely than not to have happened. The balance of probabilities is the test all courts  use to 
determine civil cases. To reach my decision  I have taken  into account everything  both 
parties have said, any evidence we do have and I have  also thought about what  we know 
generally about these types of sales. We have seen a number of cases  of this type so we do 
have knowledge  about how Lloyds sold PPI. 
Mrs M says that the letter from Lloyds  dated 5 June  2018 tells her the exact dates of the 
sale. I have re-visited this letter and this is the final response letter  from Lloyds. The dates  in 
the letter refer to the dates Mrs M had her credit  card not the PPI. So because  we know her 
card was taken out in 1999, Ive said in my provisional decision that the PPI was taken  out 
some time between 1999 when Mrs M took out her credit card and 2000 when the first 
statements are available  and we can see that Mrs M had the PPI. And Lloyds is not obliged 
to keep records indefinitely so its not unusual  that it no longer has an actual copy of the 
paperwork Mrs M signed. But it is common for it to provide  a sample of the paperwork from 
some point near to the date of the sale. I used the sample paperwork as I think it is 
representative of what Mrs M would have seen at the time she applied for the PPI. 
In my provisional decision I looked  at whether Mrs M was given a fair choice about  buying 
the PPI. Mrs M feels its unfair that I found  she probably did sign up for it. I said that because  
I have taken into account what we know about Lloyds processes at this time. So although  its 
not possible to say exactly what Mrs M was told at the time, I think its more likely than not 
that she was given an option  and she chose to take out the PPI even if its completely 
understandable if she doesnt  remember that now. The PPI would have appeared as a 
separate charge on her credit card account  so thats  why I think  its more  likely if Mrs M 
didnt know she had the PPI she would have  wanted  to know  what the charge was for. 
Mrs M also says Lloyds  recommended the policy to her  and thats slightly at odds with 
Mrs M not knowing  she had it.
Ive looked at the sale as though  the PPI was recommended to Mrs M. And Mrs M has told 
me about sick pay she received and that her husband could have helped if things went  
wrong. But I explained that this PPI would have paid out in addition  to and for longer than 
her sick pay could have  lasted so thats  why Ive said it could have been useful. And 
although I appreciate her husband would have helped her, the credit card was in Mrs Ms 
sole name so that meant she was alone responsible  for the payments. If she had lost her job 
or couldnt work for some  time thats when the PPI could have been useful to her. And whilst 
Mrs M hasnt  made a claim on the policy, insurance  is taken out to cover  an unexpected 
eventuality - so the fact she hasnt made  a claim doesnt mean it wasnt useful  and it isnt a 
reason to uphold  her complaint. I also said at the time I didnt  think it was unaffordable  for 
Mrs M. In response, Mrs M has referred to a period later on when  she did need  to 
consolidate her loans and credit  card bills to decrease monthly payments but this wasnt at 
the time of the sale.
The case  histories  to which  Mrs M refers are based on a set of circumstances, products and 
periods which  are probably completely  distinct and separate to Mrs Ms. Each case  is 
determined on its own set of facts and not all PPI was mis-sold.
Overall. I cant say the PPI was unsuitable  for her and whilst I also cant say that Lloyds 
provided all the information  it should  have done, I have found that she more  likely than not 
chose the PPI and knew  she could turn it down  if she didnt want  it. And for much the same 
Ref: DRN91935533reasons as Ive said it was suitable for her I still think she would have chosen  the PPI at the 
time even  if shed been given more or better  information.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but my final decision is that I dont think  she lost out as a result 
of anything Lloyds  did wrong and I dont  uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and as set out in my final decision I dont uphold this 
complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt  need  to do anything further to put it right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91935534COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC trading as TSB (Lloyds) at the time mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when  she took out a credit card.
background
Mrs M took out a credit  card around 1999 (account number ended  9383). Lloyds cant tell us exactly  
when the PPI was taken out but we know it was at some point between 1999 when  Mrs Ms credit 
card was taken out and 2000 when  the first available  statements  are available  from Lloyds. 
This policy cost no more  than £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding balance on her credit card and would 
have covered Mrs M for 10% of that outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months if she couldnt work  
through accident or sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs M disagreed with this view. I have taken  into account 
that she feels  very strongly that the she never applied for the PPI and she didnt need it because  she 
had a secure job with excellent benefits.  Ive also noted  that she feels  weve looked at it from a one-
sided perspective. Unhappy with the adjudicators  view she asked for the complaint to be referred  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. Although I appreciate Mrs M will be 
disappointed with my decision I will explain why.
The first thing to explain  is that Lloyds cant  provide all the evidence  from the time of the sale. This 
isnt unusual and it also isnt surprising as businesses  arent required to keep records indefinitely  and 
this sale took place almost  20 years ago. But where  the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent I will 
make my decision on the balance  of probabilities - that is what is most  likely to have happened, taking 
into account  the evidence that is available,  together with what both parties  have told me. To reach my 
decision I have also thought about what we know about these types of sales at that time.  
Mrs M says that she had no recollection of being asked about the PPI or whether she wanted it. In her 
telephone call with our adjudicator she said we have  no evidence that Lloyds discussed PPI with her, 
or that she signed anything to say she wanted the PPI. So Ive thought carefully about  what  shes told 
us as Lloyds needed to give Mrs M a fair choice about whether or not to take out the policy. Although I 
dont doubt Mrs M has given me her honest recollection of events, Ive also considered that the PPI 
was taken  out nearly 20 years ago and buying insurance  isnt always  very memorable.
Lloyds cant provide  the actual application  form Mrs M completed. The one sent to her following  her 
request is a sample of the type of form that would have been used in 1999. I dont think  it was the 
actual form Mrs M completed but I think this form would have been representative of the one she 
completed to apply for the PPI. To apply for the PPI Mrs M would have had to tick a box to confirm 
she wanted  the policy. She could have  left it blank  if she didnt want it. And I also think the PPI would 
have appeared as separate entries on her credit card statements. So if she didnt know she had taken 
it out or if she had any questions she could have raised  them  with Lloyds. I havent seen evidence 
that she has done so.
Ref: DRN91935535Overall, thinking about everything  and taking into account what we know about  these types of sales,  I 
think its more  likely  that Mrs M had a choice  about buying PPI and chose to take it out knowing she 
could decline it if she didnt want it.
Lloyds also cant say if this policy was recommended but it has said it will treat the PPI as if it 
recommended it. Thats fair to Mrs M as puts a greater responsibility on Lloyds for how it sold the 
policy. It meant it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable  for Mrs Ms 
circumstances. It also had to give her enough clear  information  so that she could make an informed  
choice about whether or not to take it out.
Mrs M says it was unsuitable  for her. Shes told us she was working at the time in a secure  job with 
good benefits  so she didnt need to take out the cover. And she says she couldnt have been made  
redundant. Ive thought  about everything shes told me.
Mrs M says she would have received six months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay. 
But this policy would have  covered her if she was off work for up to 12 months - so for longer than her 
full sick pay would  have  lasted and in addition  to it. Mrs M also says her husband was also working 
and could have helped. I appreciate that Mrs Ms husband would  have wanted to help but if Mrs M 
couldnt work or lost her job then this might have been more difficult  in the longer  term as their 
household income would have reduced if Mrs M couldnt work. In that event  the insurance might have 
come in useful. And although  I can see she had a good job and felt it was secure, circumstances can 
change.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable for her or she had a particular  need to 
keep her costs down.  And she could have cancelled  the PPI at any time without penalty.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs M clear  enough information  about the policys main limitations  and 
exclusions and its cost and benefit. Its possible  that Lloyds didnt give Mrs M all the information  it 
should have done. But that isnt enough for me to uphold  the complaint. I next have to think  about  
whether Mrs M would have changed her mind about  buying the policy even if shed had better or 
clearer information. Taking  everything  into account, I cant say she would  have been put off buying 
the policy.  I can see she wasnt  affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions of the policy  
which might  have made it more difficult to make a successful claim  - she didnt have a pre-existing 
medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. So clearer  information would have only 
shown her that she could have likely  made a successful claim if shed needed  to. And as Ive found  I 
think its likely she chose the PPI and it looks as though it was affordable.  So I still think  she would  
have bought the policy even  with better  information.
Ive taken into account everything Mrs M has said including what  shes said about her being  treated 
differently to other customers whove been  successful  in making a claim and about  assumptions 
made. But these points  dont change my conclusion. As Ive explained we have to make our decisions 
on balance of probabilities, so where there isnt the actual paperwork from the time,  we look at whats 
more likely  to have  happened. And each complaint is dealt with on the basis of its own circumstances 
and merits.  So what applies in one case doesnt affect the decision in another  complaint. I want to 
assure Mrs M that we are impartial and Ive looked into her case  carefully and thought about  all shes 
told me. Ive also thought  about what Mrs M has said about the other account  number on the credit 
card. But to be clear this decision is about the credit  card ending 9383  so if she had any other 
accounts with PPI she should ask the business to look into this in the first instance.
Im sorry to disappoint her but overall  I dont think she lost out as a result of anything  Lloyds  did wrong  
and I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN91935536my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I now ask both parties to let 
me have any further information they wish me to consider by 19 April 2019 before making my final 
decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9193553