K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Welcome Financial  Services  Limited (Welcome) mis-sold  payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to him alongside a loan in 2004. 
background
Mr M borrowed £3000 from Welcome  to repay  car finance, along with further borrowing for a 
new car. At the same  time, he was sold a single premium policy for £950.02. As this was a 
single premium policy, Mr M had to borrow extra on top of his loan to pay for it. He also had 
to pay £616.49  interest  on his extra  borrowing. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  the PPI wasnt  suitable  for 
Mr M. Welcome disagreed with that view. It said that it was not unusual  to upgrade a car 
after two years and that doing so was recommended to keep in line with depreciation. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive upheld this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
Welcome accepts that it advised Mr M to buy this PPI policy. So it had to make sure the 
cover was suitable for his needs. If it wasnt, Welcome had to make sure the unsuitable 
aspects were pointed  out to Mr M. 
The PPI that Mr M bought  would have lasted him for the three year term of the loan.  But if he 
cancelled the policy early, he wouldnt have received a pro rata refund. What that means in 
practice is that if he cancelled the PPI half way through the loan,  he wouldnt have got half of 
his money back  hed have  got a smaller proportion. 
With that in mind, I dont  think the PPI was suitable  for Mr M. He was using the loan with 
Welcome to settle previous car finance. And from Welcomes evidence in its response to our 
adjudicator, it reasonably  expected Mr M to buy another  car in two years and presumably 
refinance his loan. I think Welcome would  have been put on notice that Mr M could have  
repaid his loan early.  And he wouldnt have received the pro rata refund Ive dealt with 
above. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Welcome  pointed  this out to Mr M. The paperwork 
indicates that it considered the policy to be suitable for him. I dont think Mr M would have 
bought this PPI if Welcome had advised him correctly about  the unsuitable nature of the 
cover. I dont think hed have wanted to borrow extra and pay interest on a policy when he 
wasnt likely to use it for the whole period hed paid for. 
So I uphold this complaint and Welcome  will need  to take action to put things right.  
putting things right 
Ref: DRN90329062Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been  and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. Mr M needs  to get back the extra he has 
paid. 
So, Welcome should:
Work  out and pay Mr M the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he would  have  paid each month without PPI:
If the loan was repaid early and the PPI policy cancelled, it must  work  out and pay Mr 
M the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what  it would  have cost 
to pay off the loan without  PPI:
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month  from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year :
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Welcome can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Welcome to take off tax from this interest.  Welcome  must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
I uphold this complaint  and require Welcome Financial Services  Limited to comply  with the 
above putting things right  section.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9032906