K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
early 1996.  Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI. It covered 
Mr W in case  he was off work sick or lost his job.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  rules  Nationwide were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ws information  
and not hold onto it for too long.  Meanwhile,  Mr and Mrs W dont remember  buying PPI, 
which I also think is understandable given just how long ago the sale was, and since  buying 
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Nationwide to have added the policy without 
Mr and Mrs Ws permission. But I have no evidence which shows thats what  it did, and the 
sale was too long ago for me to reasonably  expect Nationwide to be able to produce 
evidence to defend itself now.  Further, I havent seen any wider  problems with Nationwides 
sales process from the time, or any indications that it was normally misleading customers. 
From what  I can see, it looks like in order to get a PPI policy  the customer wouldve had to 
specifically apply for it, separately to applying for the mortgage itself.  So I dont think  I have a 
fair basis on which to conclude that Nationwide misled Mr and Mrs W. I think its more  likely 
that it made  a fairly normal sale, offered them PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time 
 though I can certainly understand if they no longer remember  doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. It did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed  to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Since I dont have the record  of the sale, it is possible  that the information Nationwide  gave  
Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The question, then,  is 
whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds.
Ref: DRN93852662Here, Mr W was eligible for cover and wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions 
or limitations. While  he had some sick pay through  work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
that and it offered him more comprehensive cover, especially when his sick pay reduced  to 
just half pay. And he doesnt seem to have  had any other protection  in case  he lost his job, 
which couldve left him at risk, not least when he hadnt been with his employer very long. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W had some savings, but they were  earmarked for other important  
things. And the PPI meant  Mr and Mrs W could effectively protect their savings from having 
to be used to pay the mortgage. Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for them in 
protecting their home or savings in case something  went wrong.
Further, Ive not seen any indication the PPI was unaffordable, and it was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs W could  cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Taking  
everything together, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely  to have put 
them off taking it out.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about  that. Because  Nationwide  didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9385266