K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC described his RAC cover  in 
its travel  pack. Hes also unhappy with the service he received  from a member of staff.
background
Mr P added a travel  pack to his current account in February 2018. A welcome pack  was 
issued together  with an annual eligibility  statement.
Following receipt of these  documents  Mr P contacted Barclays  to clarify whether the 
breakdown policy covered  him whilst travelling to and from his place of work. Barclays  
transferred his call to the RAC, who advised  Mr P he was covered.
Mr P is unhappy with the wording of the annual eligibility statement, which  says he is 
covered for social, domestic or leisure  purposes. He wants confirmation in writing  that 
commuting is covered. He also wants compensation for the time hes spent reading his 
policy documents and asking  for clarification.
Mr P is also unhappy with the service he received from a Barclays advisor who he feels was 
rude to him.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Barclays hadnt  acted  unreasonably  in 
transferring Mr Ps call to the RAC  because  as the insurers  they were best placed to answer 
questions about  the policy. The investigator  also said the wording of the policy was clear  and 
she didnt think it was necessary for Barclays to confirm anything in writing. The investigator  
listened to the calls but said the Barclays advisor had acted appropriately.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the wording of the policy document. This says the policy  doesnt  cover 
commercial vehicles used  for business  purposes. I think  its clear from the wording  that 
business use (commuting)  is included  save  for this specific exclusion.  Because  of this, I 
dont think its necessary to ask Barclays to confirm anything further in writing.
I appreciate that Mr P found  it both time consuming  and frustrating  to read his policy  
documentation and contact Barclays. However  I dont think its unreasonable  to expect  a 
consumer to read a policy document. In transferring Mr Ps call to the RAC I think  Barclays  
was doing its best to assist Mr P as the RAC was the insurer  and therefore the person who 
was most likely to be able to answer  any specific questions about the policy.
Ive listened to the two calls that Mr P made to Barclays  in February  2018.  Ive noted Mr Ps 
comments that Barclays was making it difficult for him to complain. I acknowledge that Mr P 
was on the second call for a long time and its clear that he was somewhat frustrated.  But 
having listened to the call I cant say that the Barclays advisor  was rude to Mr P. During  the 
call Mr Ps complaint was registered,  which is what I would have expected  the advisor to do.
Ref: DRN94970872Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I cant  fairly conclude  that 
Barclays has acted unreasonably and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9497087