K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) failed to provide him with 
policy documents when buying his buildings insurance online. He also complains that, as a 
result, it wasnt until he had to make  a claim on the policy that he became aware that it 
contained certain exclusions. 
background
Mr P took out a buildings  insurance  policy with RSA online in April 2017. During the online 
purchase the link to the policy  terms and conditions was unavailable. Mr P emailed RSA to 
let it know but he never  received a reply.  Approximately 9 months later Mr P contacted RSA 
to make a storm damage claim. RSA sent a loss adjuster  round to Mr Ps house to inspect 
the damage. He advised Mr P there  and then that the damage wasnt  the result of any of the 
events covered by the policy. 
Mr P complained to RSA.  He was unhappy  with the decision it had made  and the fact that 
the loss adjuster had made  a voice recording. RSA explained that the only recording made 
was at the point  its loss adjuster delivered his decision to Mr P. It said the whole 
conversation wasnt  recorded.  It also said it would provide  feedback to the loss adjuster  
about being clearer. Mr P accepted the outcome  of RSAs investigation.
RSA sent Mr P a renewal  pack  shortly after that, including his new policy  documents.  Mr P 
reviewed his documentation and was surprised it contained  terms he was unaware  of. He 
cancelled his policy within the 14 day cooling off period and complained again to RSA.  He 
said hed not been able to access the policy terms when first purchasing the policy the 
previous year nor had RSA sent him a welcome pack. He said none of the electronic 
communication he received from RSA included any policy documents or any indication that 
he could expect the same in the post. 
RSA looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt  think itd done anything wrong. It accepted the 
website link to the policy documents was broken on the day Mr P tried to access  it but it said 
a policy  booklet  was included in his welcome  pack sent to him within 10 days of him taking 
cover out. It also said he hadnt contacted it during the first policy year to say he hadnt 
received any documentation. It said it wouldnt,  as requested by Mr P in the circumstances, 
be cancelling his cover  from inception. 
Unhappy with RSAs  findings, Mr P complained  to this service. He said hed had issues with 
the sale of the policy  and the fact he hadnt  received a copy  of the policy  document.  He said 
he wanted RSA to cancel his policy and treat the 14 day cooling  off period from the date he 
first received  his policy documents. Our adjudicator looked into his complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully accept that the link on the website to the policy document was broken  on the day that 
Mr P was first purchasing his policy. I also accept he emailed RSA to ask where else he 
Ref: DRN90340782could find the policy terms.  But despite  doing  so I dont think I can reasonably uphold this 
complaint. Thats because RSA sent Mr P a welcome letter which  included  his policy  
documentation. Ive seen the letter and it is addressed  to Mr Ps correct address. It says at 
the start of the letter, please find enclosed your policy  documentation.  
Mr P has said that at around that time he was experiencing some difficulties with his post 
and that he made a complaint; Ive seen evidence that he did. The inference is that Mr P 
didnt receive the welcome letter or a copy of the policy  document.  I think  RSA sent the letter 
and the policy documents.  I also think its perfectly  possible  that the letter  never arrived  
given the difficulties Mr P was having. But those difficulties werent the fault of RSA. It sent 
the documents but cant, in all reasonableness, be held responsible for any failure in them to 
arrive. 
Mr P says if hed known about the policy exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear he 
wouldve cancelled his cover within the cooling off period. That may well have been the 
course of action he chose  to take but its worth stating that he needed  to insure  his property 
and all buildings insurance  policies contain the same type of exclusion. So I cant say hes 
been prejudiced by any failure to see the policy terms  at the start of his period of cover. 
I also note that the policy  document is available to download from the website at any time 
without any need  to log into an online account. And as Mr P was aware that he hadnt seen it 
he could have accessed it in this way had he so wished. 
Nor can I ignore  that Mr P has said that at the point of sale he did receive a copy  of the 
summary of cover. That contained a summary  of the general policy  conditions  and 
exclusions and stated  that there was no cover provided by the policy  for damage  caused by 
wear and tear, the need for maintenance or anything that happens gradually. So I think  it 
was clear at the start that not all damage was covered.
At the top of the summary it says, For full detailsof all the terms and conditions that apply, 
you should read the Policy Wording,  a copy of which will be provided  on completion of your 
contract or at any time on request. So Im unable to agree with Mr P that he hadnt been  told 
to expect a copy  of the policy document so didnt think to look out for it or chase it when it 
didnt arrive. 
On balance, and for the reasons Ive given, I dont think  that RSA has treated Mr P 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034078