K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  her home  insurer St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  
in relation to repair  work it undertook at her home following a water leak claim.
background
Miss S noted water damage to her kitchen floor in July 2017.  She called St Andrews and 
it told her to find the leak and let it know once this had been stopped. Miss S called
St Andrews  again  in October 2017  and told it the leak had recently been stopped. After 
briefly considering the fact that the leak had been ongoing for quite some time and what 
this might mean for its liability, St Andrews  accepted  the claim.
St Andrews  began drying the property. An area in the bathroom proved  stubborn and 
required some  further  focused  drying. The house was felt to have been dried to its 
pre-incident state  by early  January 2018.
It was noted kitchen units were damaged and no matching  ones could be found. And 
some units,  including one from the bathroom,  had been left outside by St Andrews. 
St Andrews  noted  the policy offers cover for matching items and accepted  it had to 
replace the kitchen. Miss S provided three quotes. One was an oak kitchen. St Andrews 
felt whilst this was similar to what Miss S had before it was of far better  quality. It said it 
would allow the mid-range kitchen Miss S had selected to be fitted. This was different to 
what shed had before  but St Andrews  believed it was of similar quality.
Having received Miss Ss excess payment and material choices on 22 January 2018, the 
reinstatement work  began two days later. Miss S attended most  days  to check  the work 
in progress. The reinstatement was finished in early March with sign off occurring on
15 March 2018.  Miss S and her family then returned  home.
During the work theyd been staying  with friends and family. Miss S had suggested this 
type of arrangement at the outset.  But, at that time, the work was only scheduled to take 
six weeks. The arrangement involved the six family members living separately at three 
different locations.  Miss S said the family  were  relieved to return  home in March 2018.
Having returned  home,  and initially been  pleased with the finish,  Miss S began to notice 
issues with the work.  She contacted the contractor and they offered to come out and look 
at the problems. But Miss S didnt think that was a good idea because,  in her view, they 
had caused them. She complained to St Andrews and an assessment visit took place. It 
was accepted that some things could be fixed. Miss S wasnt happy to let those  repairs 
go ahead.
Miss S sent St Andrews  an electricians  report. This said the work  done at the property 
was unsafe. St Andrews  said it hadnt  carried out any electrical work  the electrics  hadnt 
been damaged  and didnt  require removal or amendment due to the kitchen 
reinstatement. It said it wouldnt reimburse her for the cost of the report or do that work.
Miss S told St Andrews she felt her kitchen  had been devalued by the non-like-for-like 
installation. St Andrews didnt agree.
St Andrews  did accept there had been  some  delays with the claim. It said it would pay 
£75 for upset caused.
Ref: DRN97153532Miss S complained to us and our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. 
Amongst other things he suggested St Andrews should replace the kitchen with one 
similar to what  Miss S had before, that it should  complete all the electrical  work 
recommended in the report and pay £800 compensation.
St Andrews  didnt think the findings  were fair. The complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.  I didnt think St Andrews should have to replace the kitchen, or pay 
as much compensation as suggested by our investigator. But I did think  it should pay 
£500 compensation. I had some other awards to make  too, so I issued a provisional 
decision which both parties have now considered and responded to. Ive considered  
whats been said below as part of my findings  of this final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
kitchen
Ive not seen that St Andrews refused to provide  something like Miss S had before. It 
says the quote  for the oak kitchen  was considered to be an upgrade. Considering  the 
before pictures  I think the doors and end panels didnt entirely  match in colour and did 
seem to be made of different materials. So Im not persuaded that the oak kitchen quote 
did fairly represent a kitchen like that Miss S had before. So I dont  think it was unfair for 
St Andrews  to decline to fit this kitchen.
I havent seen  that having been told this quote  wasnt like what  she had before,  Miss S 
went to find other kitchens. Rather  she agreed  to St Andrews offer to fit one of the other  
kitchens shed received a quote for.
That kitchen is different to the one Miss S had before.  But I see she was asked to provide 
quotes for a replacement  and this was one of the quotes she obtained.  So Im satisfied it 
was a kitchen  she was happy to have installed.
Ive not seen evidence to show  the kitchen Miss S now has is of poor quality. I see a 
hinge has failed  but St Andrews thinks this is due to the door being slammed.  In any 
event it is prepared to fix it. Im not persuaded that one hinge failing, for whatever reason, 
means the kitchen  as a whole is of poor quality.
I also havent seen  that the kitchen is now devalued compared to what  Miss S had before.
Im not persuaded that St Andrews did anything wrong when agreeing  to install  the 
kitchen Miss S had chosen. Nor have I seen anything to make me think the item is of 
poor quality  or was installed poorly and or needs  replacing.  Im not going to make 
St Andrews  do anything in this respect.
Miss S said her kitchen  was solid oak and the quality of it was clear  because it was going 
to be re-used until water damage was found.  She said the kitchen installed was one she 
picked from some options the builder gave her  but it wasnt her free choice and it is 
Ref: DRN97153533clearly not of the same quality as she had before. There  were issues  with the kitchen and 
it isnt fair if St Andrews are saying there werent  she could ask her contractor to 
comment on what he saw and he can give a comparison of quality too. The hinge cant 
have been broken due to the door being slammed because as the doors are soft-close 
ones it is impossible to slam  them.
I understand how strongly Miss S feels about this and Im sorry I misunderstood and felt 
the kitchen installed  was based  on a quote  she had provided. But that doesnt  change the 
fact that she did agree  to that kitchen  from the options given to her. And whilst the case  
notes Ive seen  from St Andrews show Miss S did challenge it on many things, and did 
pick it up on work that she felt needed doing but it hadnt agreed to, there is no sign she 
challenged it on the kitchen choice. 
There is no doubt in my mind that there were installation/workmanship issues found with 
the kitchen after the contractors left the property. But that doesnt mean the kitchen itself 
is of poor quality. And St Andrews has agreed  to fix the workmanship issues. It is clearly 
a very different kitchen to the one Miss S had before and made of different materials   
but that brings me back  to the fact that Miss S agreed for this kitchen to be installed. 
Whether or not the doors can be slammed, it is still possible  to apply force  to the doors  
and I understand  that could damage  a soft-close hinge (which isnt meant  to have force  
applied to it). But whether  St Andrews is right or wrong about  why the hinge failed  one 
failed/defective/broken hinge doesnt mean the kitchen as a whole is of poor quality. And 
St Andrews  has agreed to replace  that hinge. With regret  for any upset this causes 
Miss S, Im not persuaded to change my mind on this. Im not going to make  St Andrews 
replace the kitchen.
In my provisional findings I considered  an issue about the bathroom:
bathroom
Miss S said she replaced a bathroom unit that St Andrews left outside. I think  its clear  
that items  were left outside. If Miss S can show me evidence of her outlay for replacing 
this Ill share  it with St Andrews and consider making it reimburse the cost. I dont think  
St Andrews  was told about this before though  so I likely wont ask it to pay interest.
Miss S sent me a picture of the new unit she has installed, but no proof  as to its cost. 
St Andrews,  meanwhile said it had no knowledge of there having been  a unit in the 
bathroom previously   just a mirror  and shelf.  I asked Miss S to show  me what  it was she 
had replaced  she said it was a mirrored cupboard with shelves and could be seen  in 
photos of items in the garden. I explained we didnt have any such photos.
Having reviewed the file again I see there  was a shelf  and mirror above the radiator  
where Miss S has installed  the new unit. Im not persuaded the new item is similar to 
what was there before.  The photos  of the old item dont satisfy  me it was a cupboard. But 
there clearly was some storage present and I accept  that St Andrews  most  likely 
damaged that when  it stripped the property and left items outside.  I havent seen that it 
recompensed Miss S for that. So Im going  to include a direction within my decision 
requiring St Andrews, if it hasnt done  so already, to compensate Miss S for replacing the 
old storage. I consider  reasonable  compensation for that to be an amount which would  
allow an item like that which was there previously to be purchased and installed.
My provisional findings continued:
Ref: DRN97153534electrics
Miss Ss electricians report  seems  to be based on the understanding that St Andrews 
carried out electrical work, perhaps  a re-wiring,  of the kitchen. It confirms work  has been 
done poorly and that there  are problems with the sockets and wiring.
But Im satisfied that St Andrews didnt carry out any major electrical work. The electrics 
werent damaged  by the water leak.  The tiling around sockets  had to be removed, and in 
some cases  the plastering and boarding.  But the sockets werent actually disconnected, 
re-wired or moved. That is evidenced  by the available photos and video. Appliances have 
been moved but again the photos suggest the newly positioned appliances are likely  
connected to sockets that remained in their pre-existing  locations.
Further the photos taken by the electrician show the issues he is concerned  about  are 
old. If St Andrews had used an electrician  at the property I might consider he should have 
noticed some of these  issues  and drawn them to Miss Ss attention.  But as no electrical 
work was being  done, no electrician attended. And I wouldnt expect a general  worker to 
have noted there was a major problem  yes the photos taken by the electrician show 
unsightly work, but nothing the average  person, or even contractor, should, in my view, 
have thought to be in breach of electrical regulations.
Ive one exception  to this; the cooker isolation switch. Its well known that such  an item 
should have an accessible  isolation  switch   it allows power to the appliance to be cut in 
an emergency. Miss S says her cookers switch was in a kitchen cabinet. When the 
electrician reported,  he found the switch on the floor under the cooker. In the event of an 
emergency Miss S wouldnt  be able to access the switch in that position. St Andrews 
says it moved the cooker out and back in and did nothing else. Im not persuaded this is 
likely the case.
The photo  in the electrical report shows the switch is clean  if it had always  been  under 
the cooker I think it would  have been greasy  and dusty. There were cupboards either  
side of the cooker.  In the video Miss S provided  and St Andrews  has seen, the 
cupboards have been removed and there is what  looks like the isolation switch  on top of 
the cooker. The cooker is still in place. On balance  I think the switch was originally in the 
cupboard and was removed  when  the kitchen was stripped. I think  St Andrews should  
reinstall this as close as possible  to where  it was before.
Without the report the issue of the socket would have likely remained unresolved. 
Therefore, I think St Andrews should reimburse  the cost of the report, plus interest.
St Andrews  said the cabling  for the cooker is faulty  and to reinstall the switch  it would 
have to resolve the cabling and chase the wiring  into the wall. It didnt think it should  have 
to do that. Especially, it said, as it likely wasnt chased into the wall to start with, or even 
attached to the wall. St Andrews felt if the switch was ever anywhere other than behind 
the cooker it was possibly  placed within a lower  kitchen cupboard.
It isnt entirely clear where  the switch  was before, but, as explained provisionally, I think  it 
was in a lower cupboard. Looking at the switch (which has lots of thick cables protruding 
out the back of it), and bearing  in mind there is often a gap between the back of kitchen 
base units and the wall, I dont think the switch  was attached to the wall behind the units. 
But I think it was likely  attached to the unit back (with the cables then hidden behind  the 
Ref: DRN97153535back of the unit and routed through the end panel  between the unit and the cooker). That 
makes more sense to me than having  a chunky switch with cumbersome cabling 
attached just laid in the cupboard.   
So Im satisfied that is what St Andrews will have  to do now,  or pay Miss S to do, to put 
her back  in the position she was in before. That wont  make St Andrews liable for the type 
or state  of the cabling, or mean it has to upgrade any electrical systems  it isnt working 
on the electrics, it is merely re-affixing, or paying for re-affixing, of a socket to a surface. It 
will still have  to reimburse the cost of Miss Ss electrical report too.
My provisional findings concluded
alternative accommodation
Miss S was happy  to stay with friends  and family. She didnt ask St Andrews to review 
this. But really it shouldnt  have been for her to bring  this up. She wasnt to know  that as 
the work  had been extended, the options for where  the family  were staying might be 
reviewed. From the file I see it was when the kitchen was stripped that it was, or should 
reasonably have been, realised that a new kitchen would be needed.  And then problems 
arose with the drying. I think the timeframe  for repairs should have been reviewed then. If 
it had, I think Miss S would  have  known in mid-December that it would likely be another  
two to three  months  (conservatively) before the family would be able to move home.
Overall, instead of being out of their home  for around six weeks, returning  around 
Christmas time, the family had to live separately and away  from home for around five 
months returning in March. The initial disruption and upset in this respect  was due to the 
claim and Miss Ss choice  on accommodation. But that suffered during the latter two to 
three months could  have  been avoided if St Andrews had reviewed the accommodation 
arrangements, which  I think it reasonably should  have done  regardless of any prompting 
or complaint by Miss S.
compensation
I think this claim  would have progressed quicker if St Andrews had asked for kitchen 
choices when the units were found  to be damaged during strip out. As it was it was 
January before this was discussed and only then because Miss S had complained  about  
some units  being left outside.
There is the upset  caused by the accommodation  to take into account too.
There were clearly snagging issues with the works.  I can see that St Andrews contractor  
was willing  to put these right but hasnt yet done  so. Whilst a leak on the sink has been 
stopped it took some  effort  to do so. It isnt unusual  for some  issues to be found with 
major work  though and the problems Miss S has identified (unsatisfactory  join on 
worktops, a visible  piece of pipe on the bathroom  sink, a slow leak on a radiator  pipe and 
better access being needed  to the boiler switch)  are of the type I would expect to see. 
They arent indicative of overall poor or negligent work. St Andrews has also agreed  to fix 
two plinths and a hinge which it doesnt  accept are related to its work. So whilst it was 
disappointing for Miss S to find these  issues,  I think  they were a natural part of the claim 
and, therefore,  not something I can reasonably make  St Andrews pay compensation for.
Overall I think  St Andrews should pay Miss S a total of £500 compensation. If it has 
Ref: DRN97153536already paid the £75 previously offered it wont need  to pay this again now.
Neither Miss S nor St Andrews commented  on what Id said regarding  alternative 
accommodation. Miss S didnt object to my compensation award  and St Andrews agreed  
to it. 
Having reviewed everything my view on this complaint hasnt changed significantly from 
that set out provisionally. I still think Miss S likely suffered a loss regarding the bathroom 
storage unit and Im satisfied St Andrews  needs  to compensate  her for that. But it will 
have to consider  and decide, taking into account my comments  above,  what that amount 
will be. The cooker  switch  needs  re-affixing  or St Andrews can pay Miss S to have her 
do this, in line with what Ive said above. Theres then the electricians report for 
St Andrews  to reimburse and compensation for it to pay. Likewise though, my view about 
the kitchen hasnt changed,  so I wont be asking St Andrews  to change it.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require St Andrews Insurance  Plc to:
Pay an amount to Miss S to reasonably  compensate  her for replacing the mirrored 
shelving unit from the bathroom (previously above the radiator), in line with my 
comments above.
Whilst completing  the other promised repairs, and in line with my comment above, 
re-affix the cooker isolation  switch  as close as possible to where Ive said it most  likely 
was before. Or pay Miss S so she can have that work done.
Reimburse the cost of the electricians report, plus interest* from the date Miss S paid 
for it until settlement is made.
Pay Miss S a total of £500  compensation, if £75 has already been paid, only the 
remainder will now need to be settled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If St Andrews 
Insurance Plc to considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest due to Miss S, 
it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9715353