K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains TSB Bank plc wont refund a payment made  on her credit card to a 
secondary ticket selling website (the Website)  for concert tickets.
background
In February 2018,  Mrs T says she bought  two concert tickets  on her TSB credit card. In total, 
she paid £361.59.  
Mrs T says once  the tickets arrived, she found the face value  of them  was a lot less than 
what she paid, which Mrs T felt was unfair.  Mrs T also says she wasnt aware  of the 
additional charges when  she finalised the purchase  and she also wasnt aware  the Website  
was a secondary ticketing  website. Mrs T also complains  about the service she was given  
she said TSB told her she made  her claim for a refund too late. But Mrs T says this was 
because TSB gave her the wrong email address when  she made a claim.
TSB looked into Mrs Ts concerns, but they didnt think  they could help. They  acknowledged  
Mrs T was given  the incorrect email address for her to refer her claim to and apologised for 
this. Nonetheless,  they said they didnt feel they had grounds to raise a chargeback claim 
because they didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. TSB also didnt think they could 
consider Mrs Ts claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for the same 
reasons as their consideration of the chargeback claim.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mrs T brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into the matter. In summary, she didnt think TSB had acted unfairly by declining Mrs 
Ts request  for a refund. She said the Website clearly displayed  how much  Mrs T would be 
charged for the tickets and Mrs T authorised this payment. Our investigator also thought  the 
Website was clear  that they were a secondary  ticketing  website.  As she didnt think there 
was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website, she didnt think TSB needed 
to do anything else.
Mrs T disagreed. She reiterated her concerns about  the price  she paid for the tickets and 
also that she didnt  feel our investigator  had understood the experience she had of using the 
Website back in 2018. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about TSB, as Mrs Ts credit card account provider. Its not about the 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Mrs T authorised TSB to debit the account with the value of the 
payment, and whether they should have helped with the dispute  with the Website in any 
other way. 
Mrs T says she made the transaction for these tickets,  knew the amount she was paying and 
was willing  to purchase the tickets at that price. It was only upon receiving the tickets that 
Mrs T found out the face value of them (which she says was around  £60 each). Mrs T 
doesnt argue she didnt  buy the tickets on her credit card,  she argues that she didnt pay the 
face value amount for the tickets. I also understand Mrs T says she wasnt aware the 
Ref: DRN99427492Website were  a secondary ticketing website.  Having looked at the Websites terms and 
conditions from around the time Mrs T bought the tickets, I think  they make clear  the 
Website is a secondary ticket selling website. And I think its clear  the tickets are being 
purchased through the Website  from a seller (who isnt representing the Website).
Mrs T also says she wasnt  aware of the additional charges up front and only became  aware  
of these when  finalising  the purchase. Mrs T says she felt rushed by the Website in buying 
the tickets and the final cost appeared at the point of selecting the payment method. Whilst 
Mrs T may have felt rushed to buy the tickets, it seems to me she was aware  of the amount  
she was paying  as she finalised the purchase  by Mrs Ts own admission, she proceeded to 
purchase the tickets  as she didnt want to miss out. Additionally, weve got screenshot 
evidence of the ticket buying process dating back to 2017  where  the total price is 
displayed on the final page before the buyer is asked to enter their card details.
Having considered everything  Mrs T has said (including that she made  this purchase and 
paid for the tickets) and the evidence provided  by TSB, Im satisfied  the transaction  was 
properly authorised and correctly applied  to Mrs Ts credit card account with TSB.
I appreciate Mrs T has told us shes aware  of some issues surrounding secondary ticket 
sellers in the media, which  have also included reports about the Website. I appreciate  Mrs 
Ts frustrations and concerns about the tickets she bought, but Im unable to comment on 
this further. Im only able to consider  Mrs Ts complaint about  TSB and the individual  
circumstances surrounding  it.
could TSB challenge  the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mrs T does 
here), the card issuer (TSB)  can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for a card 
issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge  a payment - if theres a reasonable prospect 
of success, for example  where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that the 
payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.  
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I dont think TSB couldve challenged the payment  on the basis  
Mrs T didnt  properly authorise the transaction, given  the conclusions  Ive already set out. 
I note TSB told Mrs T they werent  able to help her due to the time that had elapsed since  
the transaction was made.  Mrs T says she was initially  given an incorrect email  address by 
TSB for her to raise her claim. TSB have acknowledged this and apologised. Ultimately, they 
said Mrs T received the tickets she paid for and she wasnt  refused entry  to the concert. TSB 
said Mrs T went ahead  with the transaction despite  noticing the price of the tickets had 
increased when  she finalised  the payment.
Mrs T says she was overcharged for the tickets because she later found out they had a face 
value of around £60 each.  I dont think theres  a reason code TSB could have used under 
the chargeback  scheme rules to get Mrs Ts money  back on the basis  that she was being 
charged more than a tickets face value. So, even though TSB didnt raise a chargeback  at 
the time,  I dont think they acted unreasonably. 
TSB acknowledged they provided Mrs T with an incorrect  email  address when she contacted 
them about  her claim.  Having carefully thought about this, I dont think  Mrs T lost out as a 
Ref: DRN99427493result of TSBs  error. I say this because  this error didnt  materially affect the outcome of Mrs 
Ts chargeback claim.  So, I wont be asking TSB to do anything  more about this.
From what  Mrs T has told us, she received the tickets in time for the concert and she was 
able to attend. So, I dont think TSB could have raised a chargeback claim on the basis  Mrs 
T didnt get what she paid for.
I note Mrs T says she wasnt  aware  of the additional  charges that were added  when she 
finalised the purchase. As Ive explained,  Mrs T authorised the transaction  and agreed to 
pay the amount.  TSB are required to consider  whether  there is a reasonable prospect  of 
success when they are considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. 
Bearing in mind Mrs T authorised the transaction and received the tickets, TSBs decision 
that there  wasnt a reasonable  prospect of success in a chargeback is fair and reasonable in 
my opinion. So, Im not persuaded  they acted unfairly.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how Section 
75 applies  to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mrs T has an equal  right to claim 
against TSB as she does  against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if certain conditions are met.
My role isnt to decide TSBs liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I 
need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA). For a valid claim under  Section  75 there must be a 
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place.  The Websites  terms and conditions  in this 
case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers. 
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this they charge buyers  a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  
says they:
charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service. 
So, in effect,  there  is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs T, TSB and the 
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time, 
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre 
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets. 
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 but less than £30,000. In this 
Ref: DRN99427494case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mrs T paid - she was charged a total of 
£361.59. From our research, weve found  that the Websites fee makes  up about a third of 
the total cost.  One third of £361.59 is £120.53. So, I think its more likely than not the 
Websites fee for their service in this case was more than £100 and less than £30,000. This 
means I think Mrs T could have a valid claim under Section  75.
So, Ive established  that the necessary  arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 
about the service  the Website provided, and that the cash  price of that service is sufficient 
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need  to consider whether theres been a breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
Mrs T says she realised  the face value of the tickets she bought  were only around £60 each 
and Mrs T doesnt feel its fair that she paid £361.59 for both tickets.  Mrs T has also said she 
wasnt aware additional charges would be added at the end of the purchasing process.  And 
that she also wasnt aware the Website was a secondary ticketing website.
I appreciate Mrs Ts concerns; however, Im not persuaded there  is a misrepresentation 
here. I say this because  from looking at the information from 2018, I think its clear the 
Website is a secondary ticket selling website. Whilst there may have been some  additional  
charges at the end of the purchasing process,  Mrs T knew the price she was paying  for the 
tickets and went through the purchase process to get them. She told us she received the 
tickets and Im not persuaded shes been  told anything untrue  which  materially persuaded 
her to buy the tickets  she otherwise wouldnt have. Similarly, Mrs T received the tickets and 
was able to go to the concert, so Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract 
either. In any case, its the seller which sets the price of the tickets,  not the Website. This 
means the difference between the face value  of each ticket, and what  Mrs T paid for each 
ticket, went to the seller,  not the Website.
was there  anything else within the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 that TSB should have 
considered?
Even though  Ive made the finding  that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I 
think Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to this complaint. 
In summary,  Section 56 has the effect of making the Website  the agent of TSB during
the antecedent negotiations  leading up to Mrs T entering into a transaction with them. But
essentially, this means  TSB are responsible for the acts or omissions of the Website  in
relation to transaction. In other words, TSB have to stand  behind the things the Website
said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim  under  Section 56, there  has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangement in place - which  is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However,  unlike
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the
impact of Section  56 and whether  TSB ought  to have considered this in Mrs Ts case.
With this in mind, Ive thought about  whether the Website misrepresented the information or
the tickets which Mrs T purchased. Mrs T has been consistent in telling us she wasnt  
informed of the face value  of the tickets at the point of purchase.  And that she also wasnt 
aware of the additional charges added at the end. However, as Ive explained,  Im satisfied 
the price of the tickets were made clear to Mrs T at the time of purchase.  And she agreed to 
this price. So, I dont think  the Website misrepresented  this information.
Ref: DRN99427495I also note Mrs T has said she didnt know  the Website was a ticket resale site. Having 
looked into the Website and their terms and conditions,  Im not persuaded this information  
was misrepresented to Mrs T. I say this because I think  there are prominent  messages on 
the Website which explain that theyre  a secondary ticketing marketplace.
In summary,  while I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Mrs T, I dont think  I 
can fairly require TSB to refund  her for the tickets. I say this because I think Mrs T 
authorised TSB to debit her credit  card account  with the value of the transaction  to the 
Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. And whilst TSB acknowledged  their error in 
providing Mrs T with the incorrect  email  address which meant she raised a chargeback  claim 
too late, I dont  think TSB acted unfairly  in deciding not to raise a chargeback for reasons 
Ive already explained. 
I also think that there is the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim and I think  it does 
meet the financial limits.  But I do not think such a claim  should  be successful. I say this 
because I currently think there was no breach or misrepresentation  of the contract by the 
Website. And lastly,  I dont think TSB acted  unreasonably in not considering Mrs Ts claim  
under Section 56. 
my final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9942749