K822xComplaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC refused to refund unauthorised transactions  on 
his account.
Background 
On 15 January 2018, Mr A complained to Lloyds about two unauthorised cash withdrawals 
from his account, totalling  £6,000. He asked Lloyds  for a refund.
Lloyds wrote to him on 20 February  2018 saying  it wasnt going to refund him because his 
genuine card and PIN had been  used  for the transactions.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this response  so he brought his complaint to this service.
After our involvement, Lloyds reversed  its decision in November 2018 and agreed to refund 
the money. It transpired his card and PIN had not been used. Lloyds said it still had 
concerns about  his claim but it no longer had the evidence to show how the transactions  
were made. 
Mr A accepted this decision and Lloyds paid the refund  into his account in December 2018. 
At our adjudicators suggestion, it subsequently agreed to pay him:
simple interest at 8%, equivalent to £35, for the time Mr A was deprived of the funds  
(excluding February 2018 to November 2018  because of delays  caused  by this 
service) 
£250 for his distress  and inconvenience.
Mr A rejected the compensation offer. He said it wasnt  enough.  He said he had to pay 
solicitors to deal with his complaint and he wanted Lloyds to reimburse him for his legal fees.  
He also asked it to reimburse him for the cost of his phone calls and for having to take time 
off work. And he said his family suffered severe  financial  hardship not having access  to the 
money. 
Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  Mr A found it necessary to complain  to this service. I appreciate this was a 
frustrating experience for him and that he still doesnt know  how the money left his account.  
However, after considering all the evidence  and what hes had to say, I think that the 
compensation offer is a fair and reasonable one.
Im afraid we do expect  a consumer to spend some time trying to resolve a dispute,  including 
making some phone calls.  In this case,  Mr A spent about five weeks  trying to resolve the 
dispute on his own, before  bringing his complaint to this service.  This is not an unusually 
long period, especially not when  a business  has eight weeks  from when the complaint is 
made to issue its final response  letter. So, I dont think Mr A had to do more  than required of 
other consumers in a similar position.
Ref: DRN96221542I can see he instructed a lawyer but we wouldnt ask Lloyds to reimburse his legal fees. It 
was his choice  to instruct a lawyer, when  he could have relied on our services free of 
charge. 
I also note he says he and his family suffered  financial hardship.  However,  he hasnt 
provided any evidence  to show a connection between  the loss of the money and any 
financial hardship. I appreciate he said he needed the money to hire a car, which  he needed 
for work as a taxi driver,  but he hasnt provided proof he needed a car for work or of his loss 
of earnings, despite  being  asked to do so. 
I have no doubt  this dispute  has caused him distress and inconvenience  and I accept that 
Lloyds could have  resolved this earlier back in February 2018  but I think  the sum of £250 is 
commensurate with the level of distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
For these reasons, I wont be increasing the compensation offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in addition to the £6,000 refund, Lloyds Bank  PLC should pay Mr A:
£35  simple interest at a rate of 8% for the time he was deprived of the funds 
(excluding delay  caused by this service)
£250 for his distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622154