K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr C in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold, for much the same reasons  
as our adjudicator.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since  closed, 
so I think its understandable  that neither side have the original documents from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Cs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs C dont remember buying PPI, and I also 
think thats understandable given just how long ago this sale was, and since  buying  
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr and Mrs C into having 
PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats  what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time.  And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce  documents from the time to defend itself 
now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax  misled  Mr and 
Mrs C. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard  sales process, gave them a 
choice about PPI, and that they chose  it at the time  though I can understand  if they no 
longer recall doing  so after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr C was the main earner at the time,  was eligible for the policy, and wasnt  
significantly affected by any of the main  exclusions or limitations. To clarify, the policys  
definition of working  included self-employment, and so periods of self-employment  still 
counted towards  being considered as continuously  working.
Ref: DRN91248072From what  Ive been told, Mr C didnt  have any other  sickness  cover aside from the very 
limited statutory benefits. And while he may have been entitled to a redundancy payment 
from work,  this wouldnt have been significant as hed only been there a short time. So it 
looks like the PPI offered  much more comprehensive cover. And its worth bearing in mind 
that if Mr and Mrs C had fallen behind on their mortgage payments, they risked losing their 
home. So the PPI couldve  really  been useful for them in protecting  their home.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs C about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr C wasnt  significantly affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve  really been useful for Mr and Mrs C in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs C could  
cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9124807