K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading in this case  under its Halifax brand) wont  
refund an online payment  that he says he neither made nor authorised.  
background
Mr Z has a Halifax account. He also has an account  with BFC Exchange,  which provides 
foreign exchange  and money transmission services.  Mr Z uses that account  fairly regularly 
to send money to family abroad. 
On 12 August 2018 a payment of £2,173.92 was made from Mr Zs debit card to BFC, 
through BFCs online portal. That is, whoever  made the payment used Mr Zs details to log 
into his BFC account  and then used his Halifax card details to make  the payment. 
Mr Z says that he didnt make the payment. He was at work on the day the payment was 
made, but would have  been asleep at the time (the payment was made early in the 
morning). He hadnt lost his card, which he kept in his wallet.
Halifax looked into what Mr Z had said, but didnt agree  that it should make  a refund. It 
thought that Mr Z had made the payment himself. It pointed out that hed used BFCs 
services previously, that the payment had been made from the same IP address that Mr Z 
had used to log onto his bank account and that Mr Z had made other  claims and received 
advice on keeping his card and details safe. 
Mr Z referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
concluded however that it was more likely than not that Mr Z made the payment himself. 
Mr Z didnt  accept the investigators findings,  however, and asked that an ombudsman 
review them.             
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr Z said that he suffered from mental  health  
issues. He felt the investigator hadnt  attached sufficient weight to that and suggested he 
may have  lacked mental capacity at the time of the payment. Ive seen a letter  from Mr Zs 
GP about  his mental health and accept that he suffers  with anxiety and depression. Theres 
nothing in that letter though that suggests  he lacks mental capacity. Be that as it may, the 
issue of mental capacity would only be relevant if Mr Z had carried  out the transaction  but 
was saying he didnt  properly understand what he was doing. Mr Z isnt saying that, though;  
he says he didnt carry out the transaction  at all. 
The payment was made using Mr Zs card details  that is, the information that can be seen 
on the card  rather than the card itself. Whoever  made the payment didnt need to have the 
physical card in their possession. In my view, the fact that the correct  card details were used 
does not, in itself,  show  that Mr Z made the payment to BFC. He has explained that he 
sometimes left his card in his room  in the house he shares or on his desk  at work. He would 
also have shared the card details when making purchases online,  for example. It wouldnt 
have been difficult  for someone else to find out what they were,  if they were  minded to do so.  
Ref: DRN90276832I note however that the IP address used when the payment was made  was the same  one 
that Mr Z used to access his online banking. And his Halifax account  was accessed online a 
few minutes before the payment was made. Its possible to disguise or hide an IP address, 
but I think its likely that whoever accessed  Mr Zs account was also responsible for the 
payment. Like the investigator, I think it unlikely  that someone else was able to access 
Mr Zs online banking. Whilst Mr Z has said he sometimes needs  help from friends  to 
manage some aspects of his life, he hasnt suggested that would enable  them  to obtain 
online access to his bank  account.  
Mr Z also provided what he said was a list of transactions  on his BFC account. It didnt 
include the disputed  payment. He invited this service to contact  BFC direct  to verify that. I 
dont however think thats necessary. Its possible that the payment was made to an account 
that wasnt Mr Zs. But in any event, Mr Zs complaint about  Halifax is that it made a payment 
without his authority,  not that he authorised the payment but that it was applied to the wrong 
account by BFC. 
As Halifax and the investigator both noted,  Mr Z had made payments to BFC in the past. 
And this payment was for a similar amount. Again, that doesnt mean that Mr Z made the 
payment, but it would be unusual for a fraudster to act in that way. The investigator also 
commented on Mr Zs whereabouts in the weeks after the disputed  payment. I dont  regard 
that as being particularly  relevant, however. I do believe though that there is a large amount 
of quite compelling evidence to link Mr Z to the disputed payment. I believe its more  likely 
than not that he made it. It wouldnt therefore be fair it to be refunded.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland Plc to do 
anything further  to resolve Mr Zs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9027683