K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  Mortgage Payment Protection 
Insurance (MPPI) policy in connection with his mortgage taken out in 1993. Mr C says he 
didnt know he had the cover, so it must have been added without his knowledge or 
agreement. 
background
I dont intend to set out everything here  both parties  are aware of the circumstances 
leading up to this complaint. So briefly:
Mr C took out a mortgage in 1993  with a Building  Society now part of BoS. At the same time 
BoS says Mr C also took out a MPPI  policy designed to protect his mortgage in the event he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr C disputes that he agreed 
to take out the policy.
The policy cost around £20 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit of around  £300. The 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr Cs policy  ended  when the mortgage  account  closed  in 2001.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said there wasnt  much  left to help him work 
out what happened. And given this and the passage of time he didnt think there was enough 
to say MPPI  was added without Mr Cs knowledge or agreement. He went on to say that in 
his view the policy was suitable for Mr C and there  was nothing  about his circumstances 
which suggests hes lost out as a result of having the policy.
Mr C disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In doing so he has made  several 
detailed representations  some of which I will refer to below  and sent us a copy  of his 
mortgage offer letter from 1993 and a selection of mortgage statements. In summary Mr C 
believes he has given us enough to demonstrate that his complaint should  succeed.
Its therefore necessary  for me to decide  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr Cs complaint.
As I mentioned above, Mr C has gone  to a lot of trouble to provide us with information in 
support of his complaint. And I thank him for the time and effort  he has gone to in doing so. 
While I have not set out everything here,  Id like to reassure  Mr C that I have carefully  read 
and considered everything  hes given us  as well as what BoS has provided - in reaching 
my decision.
I feel it is also important to stress that this complaint relates to something which  happened  
25 years  ago. So there is very little by way of paperwork  or evidence from the time now 
available. And this is understandable.  BoS isnt obliged to keep records indefinitely. And as 
Mr C has told us:  its hard to recall  a lot of what happened 25 years ago 
Ref: DRN93778332What this means is that there are inevitably gaps in the information  and evidence  to show 
me clearly what happened  at the time. So where there are gaps I need to decide  things on 
the balance of probabilities  that is what  I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
what evidence there is available.
choice and consent
Mr Cs main complaint is that he didnt  know he had MPPI - he only found out he had it when  
BoS confirmed  it following  his letter of complaint, so he says it must have been  added 
without his knowledge or agreement. Mr C says he used the services of a mortgage broker   
BoS did not contact  him about  MPPI during his mortgage arrangement. Mr C says he was 
made redundant in 1995 but didnt make a claim on the policy, which is further evidence that 
he didnt know he had it.
BoS no longer  has a mortgage file with any of the paperwork from the time. What records it 
does have do not show or indicate this was a sale by an intermediary. And this is 
presumably why BoS has agreed to consider Mr Cs complaint. Mr C has said much about 
us not pursuing  the line of enquiry that there was an intermediary or broker involved in the 
sale of the mortgage and MPPI. But if Mr C feels another party is involved in his complaint 
about MPPI  then this is an entirely separate matter  - Mr C would need to address his 
concerns to the other party. This isnt something I can explore here in a complaint and 
decision about the actions of BoS.
So, on the basis that BoS says it was involved in the sale of MPPI and theres  no persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate otherwise, Im happy  to consider this complaint against  BoS.  
Mr C says because he used a mortgage  broker this means it is less likely  BoS contacted him 
about MPPI.  Hes also said he was made redundant in 2005 and didnt make a claim, so this 
is evidence he didnt  know  he had the policy. But I disagree. Ive already said BoS has 
accepted responsibility for dealing with this complaint. And even if Mr Cs mortgage was 
arranged and dealt  with by someone else, BoS could still have been involved  in selling 
MPPI. It was not unusual  for lenders to sell MPPI direct even when a third party sold the 
mortgage. 
I dont dispute  that Mr C was made redundant as he says. But this isnt enough in and of 
itself to persuade  me Mr C didnt know he had PPI. I accept its possible Mr C didnt make a 
claim because  he didnt  know  he had it. But its just as likely it was because  either Mr C 
forgot he had the policy, he chose not to or his unemployment didnt extend beyond  the 
policys waiting period for example. So I cant fairly uphold Mr Cs complaint on this basis.
Mr C has more recently provided some further  evidence in the form of the original mortgage 
offer letter and a selection  of mortgage  statements.  Mr C says neither of these things 
reference MPPI, which further  supports  his complaint.
Ive studied these documents carefully.  Firstly,  l can see the offer letter  does not refer to 
MPPI as Mr C says. And this isnt surprising to me - I think its typical  in terms of its structure 
of offer letters from around  this time. Its quite simple compared  to more modern day offer 
letters, which are far more detailed.
Ref: DRN93778333I note Mr C hasnt included the mortgage conditions  referred to (this appears  to be a 
separate document) or the special conditions which said were attached to the offer. Its 
possible something might have been said about  MPPI here.  For example it was not 
uncommon for lenders at this time to make  MPPI  a condition of lending   either where a 
special or discounted interest rate was offered or where the loan to value (LTV) was high. In 
Mr Cs case the LTV was 95%,  so its possible it was a condition  of the borrowing. But in the 
absence of these  other  documents and the rest of the paperwork from the time,  I cant say 
its more likely this was the case here.
Turning to the mortgage statements Mr Cs also provided  he says they dont reference 
PPI. But I think they do. The earliest statement provided is from around  three  years  after Mr 
C took out the mortgage. And here I can see a separate entry  from the mortgage payment, 
which is clearly narrated  Repayment Insurance  with a cost of £18.30. The next statement 
from a year later is in the same format, albeit  the narrative now reads M R I Premium.  The 
remaining statements continue with this layout.
I think this entry refers  to Mr Cs MPPI policy. While the statement narrative is different over 
the years  I think this simply refers to the product name changes  that took place over time  
from Income Protection at the start to later being known as MRI or Mortgage  Repayment 
Insurance. The direct debit date of the first of the month is consistent throughout and 
corresponds with BoS records of the first MPPI  premium collection date in 1993. Its clear 
the premium has changed  over time,  but this isnt surprising either.
So given the MPPI  entry  appeared on Mr Cs mortgage statements for several  years   and 
hes kept these  statements, so its likely he looked  at them  when they were sent  I think he 
was reasonably aware he had the policy. If Mr C didnt recognise the entry  or understand 
what Repayment Insurance or MRI meant, then I would  have expected  him to have queried 
things with BoS much sooner.
So overall Ive not seen  enough to persuade me that it is more likely than not Mr C didnt 
agree to MPPI  and it was simply added  by BoS without his consent. I think  its just as likely 
Mr C did agree to take it out and hes now simply forgotten about  what  happened.
information and suitability
While I understand Mr Cs key complaint is as above, Ive gone on to consider whether Mr C 
has lost out as a result  of the things  BoS did or didnt do when  it sold the policy.  Because 
theres so little available from the time,  I cant be persuaded that everything  happened as it 
should have. But for the reasons Ive set out below I think  the policy was ultimately suitable 
for Mr C. And I dont  think  there was anything about  it that would have put him off taking it 
out if BoS had done more. For example:
Mr C was eligible for the cover and its benefits.
He was employed and in good  health, so he wouldnt  have been affected by the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover   for example pre-existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances.  These things didnt make the 
policy unsuitable.
Mr C says and has provided  supporting information  that he was entitled to statutory 
sick pay. But this didnt make the policy unsuitable or mean Mr C didnt have a need 
for cover. The policy would have paid out alongside any sick pay and for longer if 
necessary  up to 12 months. 
Ref: DRN93778334He didnt have  any other significant means  to fall back on either.
Mr C was taking on a long-term debt secured against his home, so I think he would 
have found the policy useful if hed found  himself unable to work for an extended 
period  it would  have  played a useful part in helping protect his home.
The policy appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make it unsuitable.
conclusion
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr C has said, including what  hes said about the 
evidence against  BoS being  overwhelming - he doesnt understand why it is winning - and 
the evidence hes provided to prove his employment  and sick pay entitlement. But these 
things dont change  my decision.
Ive already said Mr C has gone  to the trouble of providing a lot of information,  which  Im 
grateful to him for. And while it predominately confirms his employment circumstances from 
the time in question, it doesnt in my view persuade me that he most likely didnt choose or 
agree to take out MPPI.  Ive said that its not unreasonable for BoS to no longer hold detailed 
records or paperwork about a mortgage  which ended  around 18 years  ago, so I disagree 
that the weight  of evidence is in Mr Cs favour. And Ive set out my reasons above as to why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
So overall and while I know hell be disappointed,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint and so theres nothing BoS needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr C has not suffered loss as a result of 
having MPPI alongside his mortgage, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9377833