K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains about Santander UK Plcs  decision to review  and close his business  
account. 
Background
In October  2018, Santander decided to review  Mr Ds business bank account. Shortly 
afterwards, Mr D went into a branch to make  a deposit into his business bank account  but 
couldnt because  Santander had restricted it. Mr D didnt know about the restriction or review 
because Santander  didnt tell him.
In November 2018, Santander  made the decision  to end their banking  relationship  with Mr D 
and closed the account. Mr D was using  the overdraft facility  on his business bank account, 
so Santander  asked him to repay  it. Santander explained the account would remain  open  to 
allow payments  to be made towards the overdraft, but it couldnt  be used for anything else.  
Mr D wasnt happy. He couldnt repay  the overdraft as Santander had asked, and he wanted 
to know why they decided to close the account.  He brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator here found  that Santander were entitled to review  and close  the account. 
He was satisfied  theyd followed their procedures and terms of the account  when  doing  so. 
And he thought  it was reasonable they asked for the overdraft to be repaid.  Mr D didnt 
agree. So, the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
The review
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr D to realise he couldnt  use his business  
account. And I appreciate this put him in a challenging  position  especially as he says he 
faced difficulties with his customers and suppliers because of it. But a bank cant  always  
guarantee that funds in an account  are readily available.
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of 
existing business  relationships. That means they often need to review  and sometimes block 
customers accounts. Santander have said that Mr Ds business  account was reviewed and 
blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked  at all the available information and circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied that Santander  was complying  with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed and blocked the account. So, I cant say theyve done  anything wrong. 
The closure
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged  to give a 
reason to the customer. Just the same as if Mr D decided to stop banking with Santander,  he 
Ref: DRN98462432wouldnt have to explain why. Santander  can only close accounts in certain  circumstances 
and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. Santander  have relied on the terms 
and conditions when  closing Mr Ds business account. The investigator helpfully explained 
the specific section  of the terms (19.2  and 19.3) which Santander relied on. 
This service wont generally  intervene  in a banks commercial  discretion.  Santander  
exercised their right to no longer offer Mr Ds business banking  facilities  and I've seen  
nothing to suggest that Santander has made  an unfair decision. So, I cant  fairly ask them  to 
do anything differently.
The overdraft
I appreciate Mr D relied on using his business account overdraft. And hes now found himself 
in a position where it needs to be repaid. I dont doubt how worrying this is for Mr D. 
However, Santander (like most banks)  provide overdraft facilities that are repayable on 
demand. The money Mr Ds business  borrowed on the overdraft, belongs to Santander   it 
isnt therefore  unreasonable for Santander to seek repayment of it in this case.
I do encourage Mr D to talk to Santander about a suitable repayment option if hes unable to 
repay the overdraft  in full. And Id expect Santander to come to a reasonable agreement  with 
Mr D based on his financial circumstances.  
Overall, I know this will disappoint Mr D and leave  him in a financially difficult  position. But I 
cant fairly say Santander have acted unfairly,  so I wont be asking them  to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9846243