K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Cavendish Property  Investments Ltd didnt tell them  they 
wouldnt be able to take out further loans under their lifetime  mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a lifetime mortgage  in 2008 recommended  by Cavendish. In 2018 
they asked to borrow more as they need  to pay for adaptions to their property. Mr and Mrs M 
say they were led to believe  they could take out additional borrowing. They say they werent 
told when they took out the mortgage  that this wouldnt  be possible.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said the 
maximum amount Mr and Mrs M can borrow depends on their age and the type and value of 
their property. Cavendish  couldnt know in 2008 whether the maximum amount 
Mr and Mrs M could  borrow  would increase by 2018. And Mr and Mrs M said in 2008 that 
they didnt intend to borrow more  in future. So even if theyd been told this wasnt  possible 
its likely  theyd have gone ahead with the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a lifetime mortgage  in 2008. The mortgage was recommended by 
Cavendish. So it needed to obtain  all relevant information and ensure the mortgage was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs  and circumstances. 
Cavendish did a fact find. The fact find says that Mr and Mrs M didnt expect to need further 
funds in future. Their priorities were a fixed interest rate and the maximum loan available. 
The mortgage offer says Mr and Mrs M borrowed the maximum amount  they were  eligible 
for, based on their age, property value and property  type. 
The mortgage offer says if Mr and Mrs M want further funds in future, they should contact 
their financial  adviser  to discuss their options.  It says the amount available will be based  on 
their age and property value at the time and be subject to the lenders  lending  criteria at that 
time.
I think Mr and Mrs M were  given  correct information  in 2008 about taking out more borrowing 
in future. That is, this would depend on circumstances  at the time,  including the property 
value and the lenders lending criteria.  
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know in 2008 that they would  need  further  funds in 10 years  
time. This is understandable. But Cavendish  didnt know this either. It recommended  a 
mortgage based on what Mr and Mrs M told it about  their circumstances  and needs  at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN92703372I dont think Mr and Mrs M were  misled about  being  able to take out further advances. But I 
dont think theyd have  acted differently if theyd been told in 2008 it was unlikely theyd be 
able to take out further funds in ten years time. This wasnt  something they expected  to do 
when they took out the mortgage. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9270337