K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which covered both of them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I sent Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds my provisional  decision  on 13 November  2018  explaining 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  I said that before I made  my final 
decision Id consider any final points from the parties, so long as I received  them  before 
13 December 2018.
Mr and Mrs M responded to my provisional  decision and said that my decision appears  to be 
based on opinion  rather than the balance of evidence;  trying to recall  figures  from 17 years 
ago is challenging  so to use the fact that [they]  included 2 separate figures  seems  
ridiculous; they find it hard to believe many claimants have the actual figures  to hand from 
that long ago; it appears that I have made a decision that they have lied in their claim which 
they fundamentally reject; and they dont have  anything additional to send me to further  
support their claim other than a reassurance  that, as they have  already  stated,  they were 
pressured into entering the insurance.
Lloyds did not respond to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M have said in response to my provisional decision and I 
appreciate what theyve said about it being difficult for them  to recall figures from such  a long 
time ago. This is entirely understandable. I dont  doubt that Mr and Mrs M have provided 
their honest  and best recollections of the time. Nevertheless, this still means that Im not 
persuaded I can be sure enough of the level of savings they had. And Ive therefore reached 
materially the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasoning again below. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  because:
Lloyds has not been able to send us any paperwork that was completed when the policy  
was sold to Mr and Mrs M in 2001.  I dont  think is surprising given how long ago that was. 
For the same reason,  I dont expect Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of the sale to be that 
detailed. Ive thought carefully  about what Mr and Mrs M have said about this, but I dont  
think theres  enough evidence to say they werent given  a choice or that they were  
Ref: DRN98147932pressured. I accept  its possible, but overall I think its most  likely that Lloyds made 
Mr and Mrs M aware that they had a choice about  buying the MPPI, and that they chose 
to take it.
Lloyds recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M, and it seems to have been right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. Im aware  Mr and Mrs M 
have said that Mr M was entitled  to sick pay of full pay for 12 months and Mrs M was 
entitled to sick pay of full pay for six months followed by half pay for six months. However,  
bearing in mind how long theyd  been working  for their respective employers in 2001, Im 
not convinced  this wouldve most  likely been  the case. Im also aware theyve said they 
had savings   but it seems  Mr and Mrs M have been inconsistent  about the amount. Its 
understandable if theyre not certain  about these  things given how long ago the policy 
was sold to them. Nevertheless, in the questionnaire they completed for Lloyds they said 
they had savings of £5,000, but theyve recently  said they had savings of £10,000. So its 
unclear  and Mr and Mrs M havent been  persuasive  about  what level of savings they 
really had at the time. Its also true that the MPPI couldve  paid out on top of any sick pay 
Mr and Mrs M mightve been  entitled  to and any savings they had, if either of them  were 
unable to work  or lost their job, at what couldve  been a difficult time.  So Im not 
persuaded that the level of sick pay and savings Mr and Mrs M had at the time meant  the 
MPPI wasnt  a sensible precaution. And I dont think  I can say it was wrong of Lloyds to 
recommend the cover.
Due to the lack of paperwork from the sale (mentioned above),  its not clear  whether 
Lloyds clearly  explained the cost of the policy  at the time. And its possible Lloyds 
couldve explained  the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it had, I think  
Mr and Mrs M would  still have  bought  it.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs M dont  appear to have been affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  including what  theyve said about them 
being in good health and having  stable  jobs at the time. However, circumstances can 
change and the MPPI was designed  to protect  protection for the unexpected. So for these 
reasons, and the reasons  explained above, these  points  dont  change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9814793