K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in December 2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. She 
applied for the loan and PPI policy in-branch.   
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £110.61  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over an 18-month  term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The total 
monthly loan repayment including  the PPI was just under £70. 
As the adjudicator explained,  Barclays doesnt now have  a copy  of the exact terms and 
conditions of the policy. So looking at the terms of the policys  Barclays  sold around  this 
time, Ive assumed  that the policy provided cover  for accident,  sickness, unemployment and 
life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay Mrs Ms monthly loan 
repayment for up to 18 months  the full term of the loan - in the event of a successful  
disability and unemployment claim.  And it would repay the outstanding balance if Mrs M 
died.
At the time,  Mrs M was employed in a clerical  position. She has told us she was entitled  to 
less than three months sick pay and indicated she had no other means of repaying her loan 
should she be unable  to work.  Its possible  that Mrs M was entitled to some  statutory 
redundancy pay  but her testimony  is that she had nothing other than sick pay to fall back 
on. She has said she was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  and transaction statements to show  that the loan account 
closed in 2002.
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mrs M about the poor value;
 
Ref: DRN99140902The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the time. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on our 
website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in much 
detail here,  but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Mrs Ms complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN99140903The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN99140904-Whether Barclays gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Mrs M has said that she didnt 
know she was paying for PPI.
Barclays hasnt got copies of the actual paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isnt 
surprising - the sale happened  more  than 18 years ago, and the loan has been  closed  since  
2002. Businesses dont have  to keep records indefinitely.
But Barclays  has provided example copies, which it says reflect  what wouldve been used 
when Mrs M took out her loan and PPI. Looking  at these I can see that the loan application 
Mrs M wouldve likely completed required her to indicate  Yes  or No  whether she 
wanted PPI. And the loan agreement itself wouldve  set out the cost of PPI separately from 
the main loan.
So, taking everything  into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened in Mrs Ms case - I think its more  likely that Mrs M knew 
the policy was optional and she agreed  to take it out without  undue  pressure. But I can 
understand why Mrs M cant  now remember doing  so.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Mrs M says Barclays didnt advise her to take out PPI. Barclays said it did provide advice.
And based on what we know about how sales were conducted around  the time in question,  I 
think its likely Barclays provided advice to Mrs M.
This means  Barclays had to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. It seems Mrs M cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances  
this wouldve  been taken from the loan application - but there  is no specific evidence  to show 
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs M would have been caught by the significant  
Ref: DRN99140905exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Barclays considered whether Mrs M had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, based on the evidence  presented Im not persuaded  Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs M given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Barclays advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she says she 
would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. Based on what we know, there were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs M cancelled the policy 
early, the loan period was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mrs M had plans to repay  the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else, which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Barclays was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability.) 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was. And I think Mrs M knew  what the single 
premium being added to the loan was, together with the additional interest  charged  on that 
amount, the monthly cost and the overall cost assuming the loan to term (as this information 
was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mrs M likely signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs 
M agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN99140906Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded Barclays gave Mrs M all of the information  
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Barclayss shortcomings have  on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs M, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN99140907Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information I think  Mrs M was given about the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Barclays made clear exactly what  Mrs M would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Broadly the policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs M knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy,  or for chronic 
conditions Mrs M had at the start date. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
She was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions, couldve proved useful to her should  the insured risks have become a reality.  I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mrs M didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions,  she was in 
permanent employment  and she didnt likely have a need to repay the loan early.  So, I still 
think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN99140908The policy didnt appear to exclude back or mental health  conditions  or place any additional  
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs M needed to be unable to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other paid work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  she would  
have expected to make a claim.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs M made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking into account Mrs Ms circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude the position Mrs M found herself in as result of the sale was the same position she 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing 
from the guidance for firms set out at DISP  App 3 (which  I dont  consider  I am), I am only 
doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would  represent  fair compensation to 
put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had not bought  the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
Ref: DRN99140909circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9914090