K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Everyday Lending  Limited  didnt provide a breakdown  of the early  
settlement figures  he requested for his loans.
background
Mr F has two loans  with Everyday Lending.  The first one dates from October 2016 and is for 
a three  year term. The second loan dates from June 2017 and is for a two year term. In early 
2018, Mr F was considering repaying both the loans early. He contacted Everyday Lending  
in February to ask for settlement figures. He wanted  to know how much it would be to pay off 
the loans on a specific date (24 or 25 March). 
Everyday Lending  gave him settlement figures  for both loans  over the phone.  The call 
handler explained that those figures  were  only valid for 28 days and so they would expire 
before the date Mr F had in mind  for making  the early repayment. He told Mr F that he would 
need to call back nearer  the time to get a new settlement figure which  would be valid for the 
date Mr F wanted. 
Mr F called Everyday Lending again  towards the end of March and was given an updated 
settlement figure for the first loan. But he thought it was too high and that it hadnt been 
calculated correctly. So at the beginning of April he disputed the figures  and asked for a 
breakdown. 
Everyday Lending  treated  it as a complaint and issued a final response letter in May.  They  
didnt uphold  Mr Fs complaint and said that the settlement figures  were  correct. As those 
settlement figures  had expired,  they set out a new settlement figure  for the first loan. They  
broke that figure  down to show the outstanding  balance, interest accrued since  Mr Fs last 
payment, interest  up to the proposed settlement date (28 days)  and 30 days  of additional 
interest (which is effectively a charge for early repayment). Everyday Lending said they were 
willing to waive the extra 30 days  interest  as a goodwill gesture. 
But Mr F remained unhappy with the figures  provided and brought a complaint to this service  
in October. Our investigator  looked into it and requested some further information from 
Everyday Lending.  In December, she provided  Mr F with a spreadsheet from Everyday 
Lending which satisfied  his queries about the figures. 
But Mr F wasnt happy that he hadnt  been  able to pay off the loans when he had wanted to. 
He said this was because Everyday Lending  had taken  so long to answer his query. So he 
asked them to backdate the settlement figures for both the loans to what they would have 
been on 24 March.  He also asked them to waive any early  repayment charges.
Our investigator thought that, as there  wasnt any evidence that Mr F requested settlement 
figures for both the loans on 24 March, it wouldnt be fair to ask Everyday Lending to 
backdate the settlement figures to that date. Overall, she thought that Everyday Lending had 
acted fairly,  so she didnt  ask them  to do anything.
 
But Mr F feels strongly that the information provided in December  is what he had been  
asking for since March. He feels that if he had been given that information earlier, he would 
have been able to pay off the loans early,  when he had wanted to.
Ref: DRN95869982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F has accepted the explanation of the figures  which was provided  to him in 
December, I wont look at the settlement figures themselves. Instead, Ill focus on whether 
that information should have been  provided  to Mr F earlier.
Its agreed by Mr F and Everyday Lending  that Mr F first contacted  them in February to 
request settlement figures  for both the loans. Ive listened to that call and Mr F did say that 
he wanted to pay off the loans on 24 or 25 March.  But the adviser told him that the 
settlement figures  he had quoted would  have expired by then. He told Mr F he would need to 
call back again before 24/25  March  for new settlement  figures. So whilst its clear from that 
conversation that Mr F hoped to pay off the loans around 24/25  March,  it was also made  
clear to him that he wouldnt be able to do so using  the figures he was given on that 
occasion.
Mr F feels strongly  that he called Everyday  Lending  again on or around  24 March.  Everyday  
Lending dont  have any record of further  contact from Mr F until 29 March. Mr F has provided  
evidence that he made  various phone calls to Everyday Lending, but I havent  seen anything 
which confirms he called  them between 15 February  and 29 March. 
The information Ive seen indicates  that Mr F made contact on 29 March and requested a 
new settlement figure. I think that makes it unlikely  he called on 24 March  asking  for 
settlement figures.  If he had done  that, he wouldnt have  needed  to call again within a week  
to ask for the same thing.  My understanding is that any settlement figure generated on 24 
March would still have  been valid on 29 March. So its likely that 29 March  is the first time Mr 
F requested  an updated settlement figure  (since the call in February).
The information Ive seen confirms that Mr F asked for a breakdown of the settlement figure 
over the phone on 29 March. He followed  this up with an email on 1 April,  in which he asked 
for a complete breakdown of the early settlement figure for the first loan. Everyday 
Lendings final response letter in May set out an updated settlement figure. It was broken 
down to show the outstanding balance, interest accrued since  the last payment,  interest  up 
to the proposed settlement date (28 days) and 30 days of additional  interest. I havent seen 
anything which shows that Mr F contacted Everyday Lending at that stage to request more  
detail.
It seems  that Mr Fs next contact with Everyday Lending about this was in October.  That was 
around the time Mr F brought his complaint to this service.  Everyday  Lending produced new 
settlement figures  for both the loans at that time. These were  broken down in the same way 
as the figure  in the final response  letter. Mr F replied saying he disputed the figure and 
wanted it broken  down  to show capital, interest  and other charges. In an email  to Mr F, 
Everyday Lending  then sent him breakdowns of the interest debits and payments on his 
accounts.
After our investigator gave the parties her view in December, Mr F said he still didnt have a 
satisfactory breakdown  of the settlement figure. Our investigator raised  a query  with 
Everyday Lending  and they provided  the full list of transactions on the loan account. This 
was much the same as what  had been provided in October but did contain  some additional 
information. Once Mr F had seen  this, he was happy  with the figures.
Ref: DRN95869983So Mr F says that it wasnt until December that he got the information he had wanted  since  
March. But it was only through  our investigators discussions that Everyday  Lending were  
able to understand exactly  what  information  Mr F wanted. Once they knew, they provided it 
straight away. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that in March/April when Mr F first requested  a breakdown,  
the information Everyday Lending  gave was adequate and responded to the request made. 
They didnt provide a breakdown of all the transactions  on the loan accounts  up to that date, 
but Mr F hadnt asked  for that. In their October  response, Everyday Lending broke  down the 
settlement figures  into capital, interest and charges (additional  interest for early  repayment), 
which is what Mr F was asking for at that point.
So I think this has been a case of crossed wires to some extent. Everyday Lending  were  
breaking down  the settlement figures  but not in the way or with the detail Mr F wanted. But 
once they knew  what he wanted, they provided  it. And when Mr F had that information, he 
accepted the figures. 
I understand that Mr F feels this has taken a very long time and that it has been very 
frustrating for him. But I dont think Everyday Lending have caused unreasonable  delay.  
From what  Ive seen, there  was a period of several months after they sent their final 
response letter when  they didnt hear anything from Mr F about the settlement figures. So 
they cant be criticised for not providing  information  during that period.
As to whether  they should  have given Mr F the December information  at the outset (when  he 
first asked for a breakdown), I dont think they should. Whilst I would expect them  to be 
forthcoming with information to Mr F about his account, I dont  think they could reasonably  
have known that when he asked for a breakdown of the settlement figure, what he wanted 
was all the information which they gave  him in December. So I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Everyday Lending to backdate the settlement figures to March.  In  reaching this 
conclusion Ive also taken  into account the fact that, when Mr F did eventually get the 
information he wanted, he was satisfied that the figures were correct.
Ive considered the 58 days worth of interest which Everyday  Lending  include in their early 
settlement calculations. As they have said, Mr Fs loan agreements  dont  specifically refer to 
this. But the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 apply here. And those 
Regulations do allow Everyday Lending  to calculate the settlement amount so as to include 
an extra  28 days interest (from notice of early  repayment up to the settlement date) and 30 
days interest (for deferral of the settlement  date). So Everyday  Lending arent doing 
anything wrong  by applying that interest.  As a goodwill gesture, they have agreed to waive 
30 days interest on the settlement figure  for the first loan. I think  thats a fair approach here,  
but I dont think  they need  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95869984
Ref: DRN9586998