K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the outcome of her section  75 claim against Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC. 
background
Ms M purchased a car in August  2016.  The vehicle was several years old with a mileage  of 
around 78,000  miles. Around  January 2018  Ms Ms car experienced engine  failure and she 
therefore contacted Tesco to register a section 75 claim for the cost of the vehicle. Tesco 
didnt uphold  the complaint and the case was later referred to our service.  
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  Overall she felt she wasnt  able to uphold  
the complaint.  Ms M has now asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman  for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the further submissions  
presented to our service after the investigator issued their view.  I too have decided  not to 
uphold this decision for reasons already outlined by the investigator.
I dont think Tesco has acted unreasonably  in this case. Despite having carefully looked at 
all the evidence, Ive not seen anything  to show the car wasnt  of satisfactory condition at the 
point of sale. And ultimately I cant conclude that theres been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. 
Just like the investigator I think that the car, when purchased, was of a satisfactory condition 
given its mileage, age and price.  As I understand it wasnt until sometime  after Ms M 
purchased the car, that a problem presented itself.
I appreciate Ms M feels very strongly  about this case, and especially that the issue  with her 
car wasnt down to wear  and tear and should  not be described as such.  Ms M says the fault 
was present at the point of sale, even  if it wasnt apparent. 
Overall Ive not seen  conclusive  evidence that the problem with the car was present when 
Ms M purchased it. Im truly sorry for difficulties shes experienced. But Im simply not able to 
hold Tesco liable  based  on the facts  and evidence Ive seen in this case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9276985