K820x#14complaint
Mr E says HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in July 1999. Mr E applied for the 
card and insurance through a postal  application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint and will explain why.
I think HSBC made Mr E aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because I can see on the application form provided  by HSBC that PPI was presented  as an 
optional requirement.  Mr E would also have had to have signed separately in a box to agree 
to it. So I am persuaded after seeing this that Mr E was given a choice to have PPI and he 
agreed to it by signing in a separate box on the application form.
As this was a postal  application, I dont think HSBC  recommended the PPI to Mr E. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for him. HSBC did have  to ensure that the information  it 
gave Mr E was clear,  fair and not misleading  so that he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance. 
It is possible the information HSBC gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think he would have taken the policy anyway. It would have paid more  than 
his minimum credit  card repayments , for up to 12 months if he couldnt find work, providing a 
useful extra benefit at a difficult time. He had 3 months sick pay but doesnt appear to have  
had enough means to make his credit card repayments if he couldnt work for an extended 
period of time, at least not enough that it would have put him off from having the insurance. 
The policy was also affordable and competitively priced. 
I also couldnt find any other exclusions or limitations within the policy  that would have 
affected him or would have put him off from having the PPI either.
In conclusion, I think Mr E would still have bought the policy if the information  that HSBC  had 
given him about  the PPI had been  better. This means Mr E isnt worse off as a result of 
anything HSBC did wrong, and theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Ref: DRN98673042Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9867304