K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about the service he received when he voluntary terminated a hire purchase 
agreement with Honda Finance Europe  Plc.
background 
In January 2017 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with Honda.
In May 2018  Mr A contacted Honda  and told them he wanted to terminate  the agreement  
due to his relocation  to France.
Honda acknowledged Mr As request in a letter  dated 30 May 2018 which set out the 
procedure for returning the car and how to settle  any outstanding balance. Mr A was given  a 
provisional figure but was advised  to wait for a final liability  letter  before settling his account.
Mr A returned the car to the dealership. He subsequently received a Notice of Arrears letter.  
The letter was dated 29 June 2018  but Mr A didnt receive it until mid July 2018 due to the 
fact that it was sent to his old address in the UK.
Honda sent a final liability letter to Mr A dated  19 July 2018  which  Mr A didnt receive until 
the end of July for the same reason. 
Mr A contacted Honda and made  arrangements to pay the outstanding  amount by bank 
transfer. He then complained about the Notice of Arrears and expressed his concern that his 
credit file had been affected.
In its final response Honda  said it was obliged  to send a Notice of Arrears  under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  where  an account had been terminated  but a balance remained 
payable. Honda  also said that due to the nature of the balance being as a result of a 
voluntary termination,  it was aware  that the Notice of Arrears was overstating the position.  
It said it would send  the necessary amendment to the credit reference agencies  providing 
confirmation that Mr As agreement had been  paid in full and on time.
Mr A wasnt  happy with Hondas response and complained to this service.  He feels  that 
Honda shouldnt  be able to issue a Notice of Arrears until after it has provided a final liability 
letter.
During the investigation by this service, Honda  made an offer to settle  the complaint. It said 
that having reviewed  Mr As account, it had decided  to uphold his complaint because  it 
believed it was Mr As intention to settle the outstanding balance as soon as he had returned  
his car to the dealership.  Honda also acknowledged  that if it had sent the final liability letter  
by email to Mr A he would  have  paid immediately. It offered to pay compensation of £100 to 
Mr A for the distress and inconvenience  he had suffered. Honda also confirmed that no 
adverse information  had been recorded on Mr As credit file. 
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He was pleased that his complaint had been upheld  by Honda but said 
hed seen no effort to avoid this happening to other  customers. Mr A said the offer of £100 
Ref: DRN96732892didnt reflect the time hed spent  dealing with the complaint. Mr A wants Honda to change its 
procedures by not issuing a Notice of Arrears until after it has issued a letter  of final liability.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The right to voluntary  terminate a hire purchase agreement  arises under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Generally, a consumer has the right to end the agreement and return the 
car provided  that they repay 50% of the total amount payable  and pay for any damage which  
exceeds normal wear  and tear.
A car isnt inspected  for damage which exceeds  normal wear and tear until it has been 
returned. This is why a finance provider will often issue  a provisional liability  before the car is 
inspected.
Mr A says he was told by Honda to wait for confirmation of his final liability  before settling his 
agreement. The final liability  letter  was sent to Mr A by letter dated 19 July 2018, which he 
didnt receive until the end of July because it was sent to his old address.
Prior to sending the final liability letter, Honda  sent a Notice  of Arrears dated 29 June 2018.
Honda has explained that it is obliged  under  the CCA to send a Notice  of Arrears  when an 
account has been terminated  but a balance remains outstanding. I agree  that the law 
requires Honda  to do this. But it would have  been less distressing for Mr A if Honda  had sent 
the final liability letter before it sent the Notice of Arrears and if Honda had explained to Mr A 
that it needed to send  the Notice of Arrears letter.  
Further, I think that Mr A would have paid the balance as soon as he received the final 
liability letter,  so if Honda had sent this earlier, he wouldve settled the account  at that point, 
which would have avoided the need  for Honda to amend Mr As Credit  Account Information 
Sharing profile.
I can see that some delay occurred because Honda  wrote to Mr A at his old UK address.  Mr 
A says he told Honda he was relocating to France. I dont know  whether  he updated his 
address details. But Honda has accepted that it would  have  been  better  if they had sent the 
letters by email as well as by post in order to make sure that Mr A received all 
correspondence promptly.
I understand that Mr A has found  the voluntary termination process frustrating. I also 
recognise that it would  have  caused Mr A a significant degree  of distress when he received 
the Notice of Arrears.
As Ive said,  Honda hasnt  done  anything wrong  in issuing the Notice of Arrears  because its 
obliged to do this by law. Im satisfied that theres  been no negative  information recorded on 
Mr As credit  file. It would have been  preferable if the final liability  letter  had been sent to Mr 
A before the Notice of Arrears letter   but the Notice of Arrears letter  would still have needed 
to have been sent in order  to comply with the CCA.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think  the offer by Honda is 
fair. It has acknowledged that it could have handled  the process differently and recognises 
Ref: DRN96732893that some  of the correspondence which it is obliged to send can be confusing.  On balance, 
Im satisfied that £100 compensation  is a fair and reasonable offer and I wont be asking  
Honda to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Honda Finance Europe Plc should pay £100 
to Mr A for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9673289