K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  sold in late 
2005 by Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Miss L 
alleges the policy was mis-sold to her because she has no recollection  of the cover ever 
being discussed, or her agreeing to it. She says she had no knowledge of the policy  and 
therefore implies it was added without her involvement or consent. She later made points 
relating to the suitability of the cover, given her circumstances of the time.
Although the PPI was only in Miss Ls name,  I see it covered  a mortgage she had originally 
taken out jointly,  with her then partner, in 2003. Miss L says she later took over responsibility 
for the mortgage  herself.
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout my decision.
background
Im sorry  it appears to have taken  quite a while for Miss Ls complaint to reach  this stage, but 
I can see there have been complexities  to deal with, including legal issues which needed 
clarification. I see weve kept in touch with Miss L throughout.
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators told Miss L a while ago that the complaint about  the 
policy being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. Miss L disagrees with that view and has asked 
that her complaint  be passed to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I acknowledge the efforts Miss L has made in bringing this complaint. And I certainly dont 
doubt that she honestly and genuinely  feels now that the PPI policy was mis-sold to her. 
However, Im afraid the evidence points, very strongly, the other way.
I note, for example, that the joint-mortgage was originally taken out around April 2003.  No 
PPI was present  on the mortgage  at that time. So, by definition,  Miss L would have been 
able to know that taking out a mortgage didnt  necessitate also taking out PPI cover;  it was 
optional.
Her central  point of complaint  is that no discussion ever took place  and she didnt consent to 
the policy  Miss L is very clear about  that. However, weve been sent her point of sale 
documents by Lloyds  which  show  PPI was discussed when she was re-arranging her 
financial affairs in December 2005. At this point, Miss L discussed PPI with an adviser and 
then signed a specific and separate PPI application  form asking  for the PPI to be added.  The 
form was entitled,  Payment  Protection  Plus for C&G Mortgages. I therefore  think  it was 
clear enough  about  what she was applying  for.
Ref: DRN97347002Miss L asked to be covered for 100%  of the borrowing  she was taking on, meaning that she 
alone would  benefit in the event of a successful claim. It was a single policy  which covered 
her against  losing her job or being too ill to work and cost £87.50 per month. Clearly, this is 
not an insubstantial sum and I feel its reasonable for me to conclude  that this validates the 
strong likelihood that PPI was indeed discussed  at the mortgage  interview,  contrary to 
Miss Ls recollections now. In the event of a successful  claim, the policy could have paid out 
up to £1,300 per month for 12 months.
I note Miss L also signed a separate direct debit mandate  to enable the monthly PPI 
premium to leave her bank account each month to pay for the PPI policy. I also think the 
third-party insurers would have issued a policy schedule with all the pertinent details 
included, such as the policy number and what the policy covered. Theres  no dispute PPI 
was sold, so I see no reason for the schedule  not to be sent to the insured party.
All these  things point  very strongly  to Miss L not only discussing the cover, but specifically 
asking for it to be added. She signed  a number of forms and authorised the monthly 
premium. In my view, there is clear evidence she would have known the cover  was optional 
and that she was under no obligation to buy it. In short, there  is substantial  evidence she 
agreed to the policy. I accept she genuinely may not remember  these things now after such  
a long time.
The next thing  I looked at is whether the cover was suitable for Miss L. She has implied it 
wasnt and cites her earnings,  savings,  job benefits and other insurance she had at the time.
Ive considered everything shes said about  these things with great  care and I fully 
understand all the points  being made. However,  I disagree with Miss L  I think  the PPI 
policy was suitable  for her.
I think this because Miss L was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. She was employed, and one could 
certainly say she enjoyed a good  salary. However,  losing  such  a salary,  even temporarily,  
would have presented her with financial difficulties in my view,  so recommending she should 
consider a policy like this isnt unreasonable. Miss L consistently said she enjoyed full sick 
pay. Im very grateful  for the efforts  she made in sending us her employment contract, but 
this shows her sick-pay provision was actually  quite moderate.
Ive also considered the substantial savings she refers to. I note however, they relate to joint-
holdings and also pre-date the PPI sale by some time. And Ive considered  the critical illness  
protection and life insurance Miss L says she had  but these cover different eventualities to 
the PPI and are not mutually exclusive  to the insurance she went on to buy.
I cant say why Miss L decided to buy the PPI. But shes been very open  about the difficult 
turn her life had taken at the time.  She was taking on sole responsibility  for a large 
mortgage; one that was secured against  her home. The consequences of not being able to 
keep up the re-payments could have been  serious and so recommending the cover wasnt  
unreasonable of Lloyds.  The evidence  shows she was probably advised  this type of 
insurance existed  and she concluded  that it was something shed like to have.
Lloyds also had to provide  information that was clear, fair and not misleading.  I obviously  
cant confirm what would  have been  said at the meeting(s) and its undoubtedly possible that 
Lloyds could have  done a better job in explaining  things.  But from what  Ive seen, it would 
have been easy  to see the cost of the monthly  PPI premiums, as well as what was covered. 
Ref: DRN97347003The notes also show a conversation about  her finances and general health  took place, 
indicating the limitations of the policy were most likely discussed. I therefore  think  Miss L had 
enough information on which to make an informed  choice about what  she wanted  to do. 
There is good, solid evidence of this.
Even if I were to think  more could  have been  done  to explain things, I see no reason why 
Miss L would  have acted  differently. The evidence is very clear to me that she wanted this 
type of protection. I think she fully engaged in the sale process  and the PPI cover  wasnt  at 
odds with any other means she had in place.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss L, but the PPI was not mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
I do not direct Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9734700