K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr W says he applied for the credit  card in branch, while Halifax says it was a postal 
sale. Ive seen  the application form Mr W completed when he took out his credit card, 
and this is of the type usually used for postal applications. The form included  a separate  
section which  briefly  explained what the PPI was and gave Mr W the option  to sign to 
say whether he wanted it or not. Mr W has signed  the form to say he did want the cover.  
I think the way the PPI was presented made  it clear that Mr W had a choice about taking 
the cover.  So I think Halifax  made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although I can understand  why he might not remember  this.
Ive not seen anything  to make me think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. Mr W has told us he was entitled  to 
some sick pay, but the PPI would have  paid out for up to 12 months if he had been too 
ill to work or had been made redundant, so longer  than hes said his full sick pay or 
redundancy pay would have lasted.  And it would have meant  any savings he had were 
available for other essential expenditure at what could  be a difficult  time. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put Mr W off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN90829562Ive thought about everything Mr W has said, but his points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest Mr W paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference  between  
what Mr W owes and what  he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading  as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) does  have  to pay back  to Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9082956