K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car he financed  through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited is not of satisfactory  quality. 
background
Mr H took ownership of the car in July 2014, with a mileage  of around 17,000 miles. 
Mr H says the car has been  regularly serviced  and well maintained. 
In March 2018 the car broke down and needed to be towed. The mileage at the time was 
around 46,000  miles. The garage inspected  the car and concluded the engine  cam/crank 
timing  was incorrect and this was probably caused by a timing chain or tensioner  failure.  It 
recommended fitting a new engine. 
Mr H complained to Close  Brothers, he said the expected lifespan for the timing  chain on this 
type of car is at least 100,000 miles. As hed completed less than half that he said the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and Close Brothers  should cover the costs to repair  the car.
Close Brothers said there was no evidence the problem with the car was present at the point 
of sale. So it said it wasnt responsible for repairing  the car. Mr H didnt agree so brought the 
complaint to our service.
The investigator who assessed the complaint pointed out satisfactory  quality doesn't  only 
relate to issues present  at the point  of sale and that durability of the car also needs to be 
considered. She concluded that the timing chain should have lasted significantly longer than 
it did so she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality. She recommended  Mr H be 
allowed to reject the car with nothing further to pay. She also thought Close Brothers  should  
refund Mr H for the payments hed made  while the car was off the road and reimburse him 
for the costs of having the car towed.  
Mr H accepted her recommendation but pointed  out that hes paid for the car to be taxed  and 
feels that he should be reimbursed for this cost since the cars been off the road. He also 
explained that being left without a car had made it difficult  for him to get to work and collect 
his daughter from school.  
Close Brothers didnt  accept her assessment it said: 
A timing chain should last for 100,000  miles.  For it to have broken early means an 
environmental factor has led to a failure.
There was no evidence to show how the car had been maintained or driven. 
If there  was a problem  with the timing chain  at the point of sale the car wouldnt  have 
been able to drive  off the forecourt
If the part doesnt last its life span  then the car shouldnt automatically  be classed as 
faulty at the point  of sale
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91746842Close Brothers supplied  Mr H the car through a conditional sale agreement. So (in 
accordance with the relevant law) its responsible for ensuring that the car it supplies is of 
satisfactory quality. This means what a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking 
into account the description  of the car, the price and all the other relevant circumstances; 
such as the age and mileage. If I dont think Mr H was supplied a car of satisfactory quality, 
Ill then need to go on to think about  what Close Brothers should  do now to put things right.
Close Brothers supplied  Mr H with a car which was three years old but it had a low mileage 
having completed roughly 17,000 miles.  The original purchase price of the car was almost 
£12,000. I think its fair to say that a reasonable person  would expect it that it could be used, 
free from major defects, for some time.
In this particular  case the engine has failed  about three years after the point of supply  which 
seems to be accepted  by all parties. The only inspection  that has been completed on the 
vehicle concluded  that the engine failure  was most  likely a result  of a problem with the timing  
chain or tensioner. As Close  Brothers has pointed out this could be down to the way the 
cars been maintained or driven. But Mr H has provided evidence to show  the cars been 
serviced regularly  and the mechanic  that inspected the car has said it has been well 
maintained. He also says from his inspection theres  no indication that the fault was due to 
anything that Mr H has done and he thinks its a significant and unforeseeable problem with 
the engine. But he also pointed out the only way to be sure is to strip out and inspect the 
engine which is expensive. 
Close Brothers hasnt provided  a report.  Instead  it says it asked a mechanic if a timing chain 
was faulty would the car work for 3 years?  and that they responded to say it wouldn't have  
gotten off of the forecourt.". I think this misses  the point of Mr Hs complaint. I havent  seen  
any suggestion from Mr H or his mechanic that the timing chain was broken when Mr H took 
possession of the car. But rather  that the engine failed  and the most likely cause of this is 
the timing chain and this part shouldnt  have failed in a car with such  low mileage. 
Notwithstanding that I havent actually seen any evidence direct from Close Brothers  
mechanic, Im more  persuaded by the evidence Mr Hs mechanic has provided because  hes 
actually inspected the car. And Im conscious that Close Brothers could have arranged an 
inspection but chose not to. Ive not seen anything that makes  me think the issue  with the 
engine was caused by normally expected wear and tear or that there were other 
environmental factors  which caused it to fail prematurely. 
Ref: DRN91746843The engine failed  in Mr Hs car after hed had it for over three years.  But as part of my 
consideration of satisfactory quality, I need to consider durability. A reasonable person 
wouldnt expect a car and every component  to last forever  and I accept that this was a 
second-hand car at the outset. But the total mileage  isnt high enough for me to think  its 
likely the engine should have catastrophically failed through normal  wear and tear. And I 
think a reasonable  person would expect  the engine in a car to last for more than 46,000 
miles, especially if it was serviced  routinely (as I am satisfied is the case here). 
There also isnt any persuasive evidence of damage to the engine  through  other means such 
as accident or misuse.   So, all things  considered  I think there was a problem with the quality 
of the engine when Close Brothers  supplied the car to Mr H and I consider it most likely that 
the timing chain was not sufficiently durable. As the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply  Close Brothers should  do something  to put things right.
Due to the nature of the damage and the time it would take to strip out and repair  the engine, 
I think that Mr H would be caused significant inconvenience if the car was repaired.  And the 
likely cost of repairing the vehicle is likely to be disproportionate to its value.  
So I think the fairest thing  for all concerned is for Close Brothers to allow  him to reject it with 
nothing further  to pay. It should also refund his deposit and remove  any information recorded 
on Mr Hs credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Mr H was able to use the car until it broke  down In March  2018. So I think  its fair he pays  for 
that use. But hes not been able to drive  it since it broke down. I dont think  he should have 
to pay for the time hes not been  able to use it so Close Brothers should refund all the 
payments Mr H has made to the agreement since 1 March 2018. It follows that as Mr H was 
unable to drive the car the costs  he incurred for taxing  the vehicle from 1 March to 
31 August 2018  should also be refunded. Mr H has provided evidence  that he paid £230 to 
tax the car. As the car was off the road for six months, Close Brothers should refund him half 
of this. 
Mr H had to pay £120 for the car to be collected and towed after it broke down. And Im 
satisfied these costs  were incurred because the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality. So 
Close Brothers should also reimburse  him for this. 
Mr H has explained that being left without  a car has meant hes had to rely on lifts from 
neighbours and taxis  to get to work.  And its made  it difficult  for him to collect his daughter 
from school. Because  Ive already  asked  Close Brothers to refund the payments Mr H made  
towards the car while  it was off the road I dont  think it would be fair to ask for his taxi fares 
to be covered too. But I do think Mr H was caused  considerable inconvenience  in not having 
use of the car and Close Brothers should compensate him for this. I think £200 would be fair 
in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
To settle  the complaint Close Brothers Limited  should:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H and end the finance agreement.
Remove any reference to this agreement from Mr Hs credit  file
Refund the deposit of £3,250  Mr H paid for the car 
Ref: DRN91746844Refund the monthly payments Mr H made towards the agreement from 1 March  2018 
to date.  
Reimburse Mr H for the £120  he incurred having  the car towed 
Reimburse Mr H £115 for the road tax hed paid for the car from 1 March to 
31 August 2018.
Add interest* to each  of the above payments  of 8% simple per annum from the date 
he paid until the date of settlement
Pay Mr H £200 compensation for the inconvenience hes been caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
*If Close Brothers Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Christopher Bick
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9174684