K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Cumberland Building  Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy, which covered  Mr N for an accident,  sickness and unemployment. In the event of 
a claim the policy  would have paid out £350  a month  for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N say that they werent  told by Cumberland that the PPI policy  was optional and 
that they were  told they needed the cover to get their mortgage.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr and 
Mrs Ns signed mortgage application form. It seems this form was completed during a 
meeting with a Cumberland  adviser in one of its branches. The form includes the question  
Do you require protection for your mortgage repayments? There are YES  and NO 
options for both mortgage applicants. And I can see that the YES  box has been  ticked for 
Mr N and the NO  box for Mrs N and that both have signed under this section. Ive also 
seen a separate PPI application form completed for Mr N and signed by him. Amongst  other 
things, this includes the policys monthly  cost and benefit.
So, on the evidence  available  to me, I think Mr and Mrs N knew at the time that the PPI was 
optional and actively decided to buy it. But I can understand why they may not remember  
this now as the sale took place a long time ago.
Mr and Mrs N and Cumberland both say that this was an advised sale. This means  that 
Cumberland needed  to check that the PPI was suitable for them.  As I dont know  what  was 
said to them by the adviser, I dont know how Cumberland  did this. But, from what  I know 
about their circumstances at the time,  I dont think theres any reason to think  the PPI wasnt 
suitable. I say this because:
Mr N appears  to have been  eligible for the PPI and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs N say they didnt need  the PPI cover for Mr N because he had generous sick 
pay/redundancy provision  from his employer and they also had savings that could have 
been used if needed.  But they opted  to take out the PPI policy so it seems  they valued  
the extra cover it gave them. It protected their mortgage repayments, and ultimately their 
home, if Mr N couldnt work.  And the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months  per 
claim in addition to any other funds  available to them at the time. This means that Mr and 
Ref: DRN97834382Mrs N could have used  these funds for their other  expenses or to pay off some of their 
other borrowings. 
Mr and Mrs N have said they could  rely on Mr Ns mother  whod been  a guarantor on a 
previous mortgage   to help them if things went wrong. But, although Mr Ns mother may 
have wanted to help, she might  not have been in a position to easily  do so when they 
needed it. And the PPI would mean Mr and Mrs N could  continue  to meet the mortgage  
repayments without  resorting to such help. 
I believe the monthly premium of around  £18 (and which I gather wasnt  payable  for the 
first six months) was affordable for Mr and Mrs N. And the PPI was flexible in that they 
could have cancelled  it at any time if they decided  they no longer wanted it.
Cumberland also needed to give Mr and Mrs N enough information to allow them  to decide if 
they wanted to buy it. I think  its possible that Cumberland could  have provided  better  
information than it did. But I can see that some details, including  the cost and benefits of the 
PPI, were shown on the PPI application form. And for much the same reasons that I dont 
think the PPI was unsuitable, I dont think better  information would have changed their minds 
about buying it. I still think they would  have thought it provided useful benefits  at an 
affordable cost.
Which means Cumberland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs N. But Cumberland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because:
Cumberland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Cumberland  didnt  
tell Mr and Mrs N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Cumberland  basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
 
what the business needs  to do
Cumberland has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs N any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. Cumberland should 
also pay back to Mr and Mrs N any extra interest they paid because  of that.
Cumberland should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs N the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Cumberland  
should also pay Mr and Mrs N 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs N can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society  doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
Ref: DRN97834383But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9783438