K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Covea Insurance  plc has dealt  with a claim on their 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Ws vehicle  was stolen. They made a theft claim on their Covea policy on 31 
October 2018. On 17 January 2019 the police located the vehicle, which  appeared to be in 
good condition,  and started  forensic investigations.  Mrs W wanted to see the vehicle and told 
Covea she would need the keys which had been  sent to it previously.  But Covea found it 
didnt have the keys. The police later needed  the keys to inspect the vehicles  on board 
entertainment system and asked  Covea to get a new key but this couldnt be done due to the 
vehicles security measures. So Covea agreed to take the vehicle to one of its approved 
repairers to change the locks and provide new keys. Unfortunately  this process was delayed  
until the vehicle  was released by the police but it recovered the vehicle  on 13 March  2019.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the delays in the claim and the poor service  theyve 
received. They also complain that Covea lost the vehicle  keys which further  delayed  things. 
They wanted  Covea  to provide a seven seater courtesy vehicle. They  want compensating for 
whats happened.
Covea said in it final response on 1 February 2019  that it hadnt received the vehicles keys 
yet but it had received the documentation. It apologised for the length of time it was taking to 
deal with the claim but said when a vehicle is stolen a full investigation has to take place. It 
had sent Mr and Mrs W a gift as a gesture of goodwill  for any inconvenience or stress 
caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Its impossible  to say exactly how long any claim should take.
Mrs and Mrs W have  provided the proof  of delivery for the package  they say was 
sent to Covea including the keys. It has confirmed that a package was received but 
the weight on posting and delivery arent the same. The weight  when posted  was 
0.99kg and when received it was 0.48kg. Covea cant say how the package was 
delivered but it wasnt tampered with. He cannot therefore determine who was at fault 
in losing the keys as there is no evidence to suggest this.
There were  unavoidable delays due to the police investigation. Its also not Coveas 
fault that theres been a delay  for matters  outside  its control.  Covea has offered to 
change the locks on the vehicle  at its own cost and provided them with a courtesy car 
as a gesture of goodwill  while  that was happening. Thats satisfactory.
Mr and Mrs W also wanted Covea to provide a seven seater courtesy car while  theirs  
was being repaired.  But their policy terms and conditions  do not say they are entitled  
to a courtesy car. And they wouldnt have been entitled  to one while  the police 
investigation continued or if the keys had been lost. He wouldnt recommend Covea 
should have to provide a courtesy  car. Hes satisfied it provided a courtesy car for a 
time. And its not fair for it to have  to compensate them for the delay in the claim 
being dealt with.
Ref: DRN97975422Mr and Mrs Ws representative doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In 
summary he says there was delay in Covea locating  the vehicle documents sent in support 
of the claim. They didnt  have a car at that point  and should be paid loss of use. Coveas 
offer doesnt  put them back in the position they wouldve been in if errors  hadnt been made. 
The fact it has provided a receipt  for the weight of the parcel  sent in which included the key 
and documentation  doesnt conclusively prove  it didnt lose the key. The loss of the key 
resulted in significant delay. Covea didnt chase up the police  and communication  between 
them was poor.  Its also taken time to inspect, change locks and repair the vehicle. During 
this delay Mr and Mrs W have been inconvenienced using a small car for a large family.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After the theft Covea  asked Mr and Mrs W, in a number of communications  in November and 
December 2018,  to send in various  documents and the car keys. But as they werent  
received it sent a final letter asking  for them on 3 January 2019.
In response to this Mr and Mrs W sent a recorded  delivery letter to Covea which was posted 
on 4 January 2019. The Post Office  receipt  records this as weighing 0.099kg (and not 
0.99kg as the investigator stated). The Post Office tracing website shows  this letter was 
delivered and signed for by Covea at 7.35am  on 7 January 2019.
Although the posting and delivery of this letter are confirmed by the Post Office  it doesnt 
record the contents of any letter posted and it isnt possible to say or prove what  was 
contained in the letter. 
Mr and Mrs W say they included  one car key as theyd lost the other about a month before 
the theft. But Im afraid theres nothing to prove the car key was in the recorded  delivery  
letter or show it was safely delivered  into Coveas custody as they suggest.
Covea didnt handle  the receipt  of this letter as efficiently as it might.  It called Mr and Mrs W 
on 16 January 2019  in the mistaken belief that nothing had been received from them. At that 
point it asked for the letters tracking  number. This was provided the next day and checked  
by Covea a couple of working days later confirming  safe delivery and receipt of the letter  on 
7 January at 7.35am. Covea  says that given the allegation of missing contents it then 
weighed the received letter but accepts now that the recorded  weight of 0.48kg was an error 
as its significantly more  than the weight of the letter when posted. It also say the letter  
wasnt damaged  or tampered with.
Covea has also searched for any key and says one cannot be found in its key storage area 
and theres no trace  of it having  been  received and mistakenly filed elsewhere. 
Taking everything into account  theres  nothing to prove Covea received and lost the key Mr 
and Mrs W say they sent in. But its inefficiency did lead to a few days delay before it properly 
identified the receipt  of the letter. This may well have slightly delayed  the validation of the 
claim and ultimately the arranging of the repairs. But as the investigator has pointed out all 
claims take a variable and indeterminate  amount of time to resolve.  And in this case there 
were also delays at various stages  in Covea making  progress with the police given their 
investigation into the theft. 
Ref: DRN97975423Although a slight additional  delay  was caused by the time it took Covea to recognise that the 
recorded letter had been received I dont think on the available  evidence  I can on balance 
reasonably hold it responsible for any additional  time it subsequently took to sort things out 
with the police or to resolve  the claim and arrange and complete any repairs. Overall the 
claim progressed  reasonably.
Whatever happened to the key Covea has offered to change  the locks  on the vehicle at its 
own cost and provided Mr and Mrs W with a courtesy car as a gesture of goodwill while  that 
was happening.  Thats fair. Overall I dont think I can also ask it to pay Mr and Mrs W 
anything more including for any loss of use of their car.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative also says Covea should have  provided  a seven seater 
courtesy car while theirs was being  repaired.  But their policy  terms and conditions do not say 
they are entitled  to a courtesy car. And they wouldnt have been  entitled to one while the 
police investigation  continued or if the keys had been lost. 
Although I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration  and strength of feeling,  taking everything 
into account I dont  think I can fairly  or reasonably require  Covea  to do or pay any more than 
its already offered to do and done. And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9797542