K821x#15complaint
Ms M says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 8 loans Uncle Buck provided to Ms M between February 2016
and September  2017. The amounts Ms M borrowed  ranged between £150 and £700. The 
first loan was to be repaid  in one instalment and the rest of the loans were repayable over 
three instalments. Loan four was the largest  amount borrowed  of £700.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ms complaint in part and thought loans four to eight shouldnt 
have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed. It said there was a three week  break in 
borrowing between loans  five and six. The credit searches showed nothing of concern 
and it was reasonable to rely on what Ms M said about her finances. It made  robust 
checking of Ms Ms finances and did not agree  that there was a spiral of unsustainable 
borrowing as Ms M repaid  her loans in full and on time. It also said that removing adverse 
data from Ms Ms credit report  would  give a misleading report  to future lenders. It did offer 
to refund the interest  and charges incurred  on loan 8. Ms M didnt accept that offer and so 
the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant  rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts  
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer.  These 
factors include:
 the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN98638242I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender  should 
realise, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to realise,  that a borrower wont be able to make  
their repayments sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence and information  provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Ms M for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  
out credit checks. Ms M said she earned  between £1400  and £1600 a month and Uncle 
Buck said it verified this. Ms M said her monthly outgoings were  around £850  from what  I 
can see Uncle Buck recorded.
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what  was apparent about Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time and her history with Uncle Buck, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed  to show  the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Ms M then provided or the 
information Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Ms M was saying.  From  Ms Ms stated disposable 
income and what Uncle  Buck  saw in its credit checks, I cant say it was wrong  to provide 
loans one to three.
But I think Ms Ms borrowing history  should have prompted Uncle Buck  to make  better  
checks for loan four. Ms M had been borrowing continuously leaving a very short  gap after 
repaying one loan before taking out another. Loan  four was for a substantially  larger  
amount. So I think Uncle Buck should have checked what Ms M was telling  it about  her 
circumstances. I think  Uncle Buck needed  to verify  what  Ms M was saying with evidence.
As our adjudicator  explained, a proportionate  check for loans  four to six would most likely  
have shown that Ms M was having difficulty managing her money:
 Her borrowing  was increasing at the point of loan 4.
 This should have  raised concerns about  Ms Ms ability to meet  her ongoing  
monthly repayments.
I dont agree that because there  was a short gap between loans five and six that this is 
enough to suggest any difficulties have  passed. Ms M essentially kept borrowing without 
making any real inroads  into the amounts outstanding which suggests that the loans were  
unsustainable and Ms M was having  to borrow again to cover the hole in her finances. The 
fact that Ms M repaid  her loans on time isnt enough for me to conclude they were 
affordable.
Ref: DRN98638243Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case,  I think  that the point  at which  Uncle 
Buck should  reasonably have seen  that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful was reached  by Loan 6. I say this because:
Uncle Buck had already been  extending credit to Ms M for a year without any 
significant break.
Loan 6 was for £700 which was a significant amount and the repayment was a 
significant proportion of Ms Ms disposable income.
I think that Ms M lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing  from 
Loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative implications on 
Ms Ms ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.
Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was likely  Ms Ms indebtedness  was 
increasing unsustainably given the amounts and frequency  of her borrowing; 
and;
Ms M was in effect paying  large amounts of interest to service  the debt over 
an extended period and it cannot  be ignored  that fresh  principal sums lent 
may well have been used to cover the hole in her finances left by the 
repayments.
So I think if Uncle  Buck had made  better checks on loan four and properly taken into 
account what it knew about Ms M it would have seen that Ms M would  be unlikely to 
sustainably repay loan four and any subsequent loans. At the point of loan 6 the overall 
pattern of lending increased her indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and she lost out as a result.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to eight and Uncle Buck should put things 
right.
I think that Ms M shouldnt  have  been  given these  loans so I dont think any negative  
information should be reflected on her credit file and it is fair to remove  this negative 
information. I dont  agree that this would  give a misleading picture to lenders.  I think it 
would more accurately  reflect the position if Uncle Buck had not given these  loans.
Ref: DRN98638244putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
 refund  all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans four to eight;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information about loans  four and 5 from Ms Ms credit file. 
The number of loans  taken from Loan 6 means  any information recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries  about Loans  6 to 8 should be removed  from Ms 
Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle 
Buck must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject  my decision before 
9 January 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863824