K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited collected a payment by direct debit when his credit  card 
account was not in debit  and then failed to automatically refund the money.  
Background
In September  2018 Mr F made an online  payment of £924.54 to his credit card account  
which paid off the balance of his account. Shortly after that MBNA collected a minimum 
payment of £25 by direct debit which put Mr Fs credit card account  in credit.  
Mr F said that after it took the minimum payment MBNA did not automatically refund the 
money because his account was in credit. He said he spent time online trying to get the 
money back. He complained to MBNA on the phone. It then refunded  the money. Mr F 
wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service. He didnt believe he should  have to 
chase MBNA for money that it shouldnt have taken in the first place. He said while  MBNA 
refunded the money it had failed to see that it had taken him time to deal with the matter. 
Mr F also thought other credit card companies have systems in place  to stop direct debits if 
there is no outstanding  balance  and MBNA  should take steps to make sure this doesnt 
happen to other customers. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think MBNA  had acted  inappropriately and that it had dealt  with Mr Fs 
complaint fairly and reasonably. Mr F remained dissatisfied  and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr F but having done so I wont be asking  MBNA  to do anything further. 
MBNA issued a statement to Mr F, dated  19 September. The balance at the time was 
£924.54. The estimated interest on the next statement was £18.21.  Next to and below these 
details on the statement  it said:
Your payment of £25 will be collected from your nominated bank by direct  debit on 
or after 15 October.  Your regular direct debit payment will always  be taken, 
regardless of any additional  payments  you choose  to make. 
MBNA has said this is advised on all statements. So Im satisfied Mr F was given appropriate  
communication of the direct debit  payment  and that it would be taken irrespective of any 
additional payments to the account. Mr F made  a payment to MBNA through  the online 
service on 28 September. This was nine days after the statement was issued. This means  
interest was due on the balance for that nine day period, totalling £5.04.  MBNA collected £25 
by direct debit on 15 October  and on 18 October the interest  was charged. This left a credit 
balance of £19.96. 
Mr F is concerned MBNAs attitude  was that it didnt care he had to spend time getting his 
money back. He said it suggested he should spend the money on the card to get it back and 
that in his opinion this was wrong.  
Ref: DRN95736142I can see Mr F is frustrated about  this which is understandable. It seems  his intention was to 
pay off the balance of his card but hes had to spend time trying to get the minimum payment 
back. I do have  sympathy with him as Im sure it was annoying. MBNA has said it does not 
put any account credits  back  into a customers  bank account automatically, as it needs  
permission from the customer to do this. It says it informs customers their account is in credit 
through their statement. It went on to say it is always the customers choice to either  have 
the credit  refunded back into their bank account or to use up their credit when using the 
credit card for transactions.  I understand  this is not the way Mr F would have chosen to have 
MBNA deal with his credit  balance but Im satisfied MBNAs explanation is reasonable. 
In addition in the terms and conditions  of the credit  card it says:
If you receive a refund or credit to your account after your statement date, you must 
still pay at least the minimum payment that we have  asked for.
Mr F has said that in his opinion no one reads the terms and conditions. I cant  comment on 
what people do in general as my role is to look at the individual circumstances of this 
complaint but when  he signed the credit card agreement he agreed to be bound by them.  
Irrespective of this it states  clearly  on every statement that the direct debit payment will 
always be taken. 
Mr F has said other credit card companies have systems in place to stop direct  debits if 
there is no outstanding  balance.  He would like me to instruct MBNA to take steps  so this 
doesnt happen to other  customers. As I mentioned above my role is to look at the individual 
circumstances so Im not able to look at how other companies handle  credit balances.  Its 
also not my role to look at MBNAs processes. That is the role of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. In this case Im satisfied MBNA hasnt done anything  wrong  so I wont be asking it 
to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9573614