K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her three  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policies.
background
In January 1991, Ms B took out a mortgage during a meeting with Leeds Permanent Building  
Society. At the same  time,  it sold her an MPPI policy. Halifax  has taken responsibility for the 
sale and so I will refer to Halifax throughout my decision. The policy cost £18 per month  and 
if Ms B was too ill to work or made redundant it would have paid out £300 a month  for up to 
12 months per claim.
 
In March 2002, Ms B took a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  that provided MPPI  
cover and replaced the policy  sold in 1991. The policy cost £11.24 per month and provided a 
benefit of £185.32 per month for up to 24 months  per claim.
In November 2005, Ms B took a new TMPP, but it was cancelled  within  the 30 day cooling 
off period.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
did Halifax mis-sell MPPI in January 1991
Halifax had to make it clear the MPPI  was optional and it had to make  sure Ms B agreed to 
take it. Neither partys  been able to give us much detail about  how the MPPI was sold, which  
is understandable because  the sale was so many  years ago. But because  of this, Ive not 
seen enough to say its likely Halifax didnt make it clear the policy was optional  or that Ms B 
didnt agree to take it at the time.
Ms B says Halifax didnt  give her any advice, but Halifax  says that it did. In light of this, Ive 
considered it an advised  sale because this puts more responsibility on Halifax  to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for Ms B. It also had to give her enough  information  about the policy  
so she could decide whether it was right for her.
Based on what Ive seen   I think the policy was suitable for Ms B and I say this because:
Ms B was eligible for the policy.
Ms B doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the things that might have 
made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical  
condition.
Ref: DRN93685502Ms B says she would have received  at least 12 months sick pay from her employer 
and shes also mentioned that due to the nature  of her mortgage  social  security 
(now the Department  for Work and Pensions)  would  have made her mortgage  
repayments if she was out of work.  
Ive thought carefully about this, but the mortgage was a big and long term 
commitment secured against  Ms Bs home,  so the consequences of not being able to 
keep up payments could have  been  serious for her. Ms B had to make  both her 
mortgage repayments and pay rent, so if she fell on difficult  times, I think  the policy 
could have been useful for her. The policy  would have  paid out in addition to the sick 
pay Ms B says she would  have received  and she could  have  claimed again after a 
requalification period.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Ms B.
I cant be sure Ms B knew the exact  cost and benefit of the policy,  or that she was 
given enough  information about the terms of the policy.  But for the same reasons as I 
think the policy was suitable for Ms B, I dont think better information would have 
changed her decision  to take it.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms B. But Halifax 
has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms B because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms B about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
did Halifax mis-sell MPPI in March 2002
As Ive explained above, Halifax had to let Ms B know the MPPI was optional and it had to 
get her consent  before  it added MPPI to her account. Once again, theres limited information 
available from the time of sale and Ms B hasnt been  able to give us a detailed account of 
what happened either. So I have to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
Weve seen a number of similar  sales by Halifax around this period and we usually find that 
the optional nature of the policy was made  clear. And that its consumers had to consent in 
order for MPPI  to be added to their account. Because of this, I think  its likely the adviser  
would have explained that the policy was optional and got Ms Bs consent before arranging  
for the policy to be put in place. So I think Ms B was more likely aware she had a choice 
about buying MPPI and that she chose  to take it at the time.
Halifax says that it would have advised  Ms B to take the policy and for the same reasons as I 
explained on the previous  policy, I have reviewed the case on this basis.  Considering Ms Bs 
circumstances, I think  the policy was suitable  for her and Ill explain why:
Ms B was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN93685503I cant see any reason why Ms B would have found it harder to make  a claim on the 
policy.
Ms B says she would have received  full sick pay, but for longer periods, this was 
subject to occupational health  confirming that she was unfit to work. Ms B says she 
also had some savings  at this time. But as this policy  would have paid out for up to 
24 months per claim in addition to anything Ms B received from her employer, I still 
think it could have  been useful to her.
There isnt anything  to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Ms B.
I dont think better  information  about  the cost or terms of the policy would have made 
a difference to her decision.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Ms B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms B back some  of the 
cost of the MPPI and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms B.
did Halifax mis-sell MPPI in November 2005
Its unclear why a new policy was set up at this point, but I havent  looked into this further 
because Halifax has provided  evidence that the policy was cancelled  during the 30 day 
cooling off period. I can see that Ms B made  two payments  towards the policy,  but these 
were refunded within two weeks  and so Ms B has not lost out.
I know Ms B will be disappointed by the outcome,  but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think shes lost out because of anything Halifax did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9368550