K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Miss C took out in 2016 with National Westminster  Bank  
Plc (NatWest). Shes unhappy  with the way NatWest administers overpayments, in 
particular that it reduced the monthly  instalment after an overpayment  has been  made.  Our 
dealings have been primarily with Miss Cs mother,  Ms C, who brings the complaint on her 
daughters behalf.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide.  This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not 
be side-tracked by matters which have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Miss C took the mortgage out in 2016 on the advice and recommendation of a third party 
intermediary Ill call M. The mortgage  was for a little under £108,000, repayable  over 35 
years, with an initial fixed rate of 3.39% for the first five years.  The fixed rate deal came with 
an early repayment charge (ERC), but theres a provision for up to 10% of each years  
balance to be repaid without incurring  the ERC.
Between 2017 and 2019, Miss C made  various lump sum overpayments;  NatWests  default 
policy is to reduce the monthly payment to keep  the original term intact if a lump  sum 
reduction is more than £1,000. Miss C thought the bank should keep the payment 
unchanged as this would pay the mortgage  off more  quickly. NatWest agreed to this but it 
treated the difference between the old and new monthly instalments as counting towards 
to the 10% allowance.  
Miss C thinks  thats unfair,  and contrary to the understanding she had when she took the 
mortgage out. Shes since repaid  the mortgage,  including an ERC, which she argues  was 
higher than it would  have  been if shed been allowed to pay down her full 10% allowance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
The complaint is simpler  than it seems. Miss C contracted  with NatWest to repay  the 
mortgage over 35 years.  She could pay more  than the contractual amount to reduce the debt 
more quickly if she wished, and there  was two ways to do that; individual lump sums,  and 
paying more than the contractual  payment  each  month. But if the extra  she paid in any given 
year (by either method) reduced  the balance by more than 10% above and beyond the 
contractually-scheduled reduction,  she became liable for an ERC  on amounts that exceeded 
the 10% allowance.
That being  the case, its perfectly logical that if Miss C wanted  to keep her monthly amount 
unchanged after a lump sum reduction, the extra then counted towards that years  10% 
allowance. For it to work any other way would have introduced the possibility for borrowers  
Ref: DRN97159442to pay more than the 10% allowance without incurring an ERC,  and the underlying contract  
doesnt permit  that. 
Section 9 of the mortgage offer, headed Flexible features, includes the following  clause,  
under the sub-heading Overpayments:
You benefit immediately  from overpaying  directly  to your mortgage.  If you make an 
overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe, and the amount of interest 
you pay, is reduced immediately.
This doesnt specify that the monthly instalment is reduced immediately, but the monthly 
instalment is made up of capital and interest. It therefore follows  that if the interest element is 
reduced and the instalment isnt, then the capital element is increased over what is 
scheduled and the extra portion must therefore  go towards the 10% allowance.
It seems  Miss C wasnt  expecting the mortgage to operate this way, and says NatWest has 
misled her by relying on hidden  terms. Im not sure thats fair criticism. The mortgage  
documentation sets out what is allowed in terms of overpayments, but other than the 
passage Ive quoted above,  is silent on the mechanics of how NatWest administers them. 
I dont find that unusual or concerning,  and in any event, its for the regulator of mortgage 
business to decide what information  lenders  must put in their documents. 
What that does tells me, though, is that any expectations Miss C might have formed  about 
how her overpayments  would be administered cant have  been  formed  by anything NatWest 
said (or didnt say) in the mortgage documentation.  After all, if NatWest didnt say anything 
about how it would administer overpayments, aside from the quoted  passage, it cant  have  
said anything wrong. 
On the other hand, if Miss C needed  to know how this aspect of her mortgage would work 
before she agreed  to take it out  and couldnt glean  what she needed from the mortgage 
offer  then it was incumbent on her to ask specific questions about it first. In the normal 
course of events, Id expect those questions to be asked of M, the intermediary that sold the 
mortgage to Miss C and recommended it as suitable  for her needs. If M wasnt  sure,  it could 
check with NatWest before relaying  the information to Miss C. 
I can make  no findings here on the advice or information given by M, as this is a complaint 
against NatWest, and NatWest didnt sell or recommend the mortgage. If Miss C wished to 
pursue a separate mis-selling complaint, shed need  to do so with M first, and then refer it to 
us if not satisfied with the outcome. But she should  draw no inferences  from anything I say 
here about whether she should complain  against M, or what  the outcome would be if she 
did.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against National Westminster Bank Plc. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C (or Ms C 
on her behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 18 March 2020.
Ref: DRN97159443Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9715944