K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) blocked their accounts 
and closed them without  notice. Mr H says HSBC havent explained why it closed the accounts. 
And that this caused him a great  deal of inconvenience. He wants HSBC to apologise  and pay 
compensation. 
background
Mr and Mrs H had four personal accounts with HSBC. Mr H also had several business accounts.
In March 2018, as part of its know our customer review process, HSBC asked Mr H for 
information to ensure  it understood  enough  about  Mr and Mrs Hs accounts and the use of them.  
Mr H gave HSBC information about  all of his accounts which  included  how they were funded and 
set up. He also told HSBC that one of his personal  accounts was funded by his business  
accounts. 
On 28 March 2018, following the review,  HSBC blocked Mr and Mrs Hs accounts.  Mr H called 
HSBC to find out why his accounts had been blocked. HSBC  told Mr H it was complying with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. And that it was legally  required to ensure that it had up to date 
information for its customers at all times. Mr H wasnt happy with this explanation and felt HSBC  
had over reacted  by freezing  his accounts.  Mr H says because  of the blocks a number of direct 
debits had been returned unpaid, which caused  a great deal of inconvenience. 
On 23 April 2018, HSBC  removed the blocks on Mr and Mrs Hs accounts.  So the accounts were  
operating normally.  On 24 May 2018,  HSBC wrote  to Mr H and told him that following  its review,  it 
had decided to close his accounts with immediate effect. And it issued cheques  for the closing 
balances. Mr H was very unhappy  HSBC had closed his accounts without notice or any warning. 
He says he hasnt  done anything wrong  and HSBC have treated him unfairly. 
Following this, Mr H contacted our service  and asked us to look into what  had happened. 
Our investigator was satisfied HSBC had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the accounts when it blocked and closed Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. And that it had followed its 
legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed  the accounts.  So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. In particular, he said because  HSBC hadnt  
given him at least 30 days notice when it closed  his account, it hadnt  complied  with The 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Banking  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS). As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
By way of background to my consideration of the complaint, I should also set out that Im required 
to determine complaints  by reference  to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In making that determination,  amongst other  things, I must have regard to any 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr and Mrs Hs accounts. Anti-money 
laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated  financial 
businesses to have  suitable systems in place for customer identification. Financial institutions 
must establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. HSBC 
have said that Mr Hs account was reviewed as part of their know your customer work to meet  
these legal requirements.
Ref: DRN93324782I appreciate Mr H had been  a HSBC customer for many years when it asked him to provide the 
information. But HSBC  is legally required to ask certain information to ensure they have a clear  
understanding of the purpose of accounts  and what their accounts are being used for. Having 
reviewed the information  Mr H provided  to HSBC about how Mr H was using his accounts, I can 
see why HSBC believed  the information  was necessary. And I can understand HSBCs concerns.   
Mr H says he accepts HSBC were  entitled  to ask him for information.  But he feels  HSBC  have 
treated him and his wife like criminals. In particular he says HSBC  hasnt given him an opportunity 
to defend himself.  And demonstrate he hasnt done  anything wrong.  But from looking at the 
evidence, I can see that Mr H had several  conversations with HSBC  during which  he gave HSBC 
information about how he operated his accounts before and after the blocks were placed on the 
accounts. So I dont  agree that Mr H hasnt had an opportunity to put his side of things across.  
Whilst I understand Mr Hs strength of feeling,  businesses have a legal obligation to ensure that 
their customers are who they say they are, to protect the security of their accounts and also to 
comply with various laws and regulations. Mr H agreed to this term as a customer, and it is a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that HSBC were  acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  reviewing Mr and Mrs Hs account and asking Mr H questions. So I dont  think 
its done anything  wrong or treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly  when it blocked  their accounts.
Mr and Mrs Hs contractual  agreement with HSBC was open-ended;  that is, the bank would 
provide banking facilities for as long as both parties  were prepared to continue with this 
arrangement. Provision was made for either party to terminate the agreement within the terms of 
the contract, which included by giving written  notice. Although Mr H has referred to BCOBS  
providing a minimum 30-day notice period, the terms of his accounts say HSBC would give at 
least two months notice, unless certain circumstances applied.
HSBC closed Mr and Mrs Hs account  24 May 2018.  This was much  sooner than 30 days. So I 
can understand why Mr H says HSBC  didnt comply with the timescales  set out in BCOBS.  But 
Ive also considered the information Mr H provided  to HSBC about his accounts. Given the 
account activity  HSBC closed Mr Hs sooner. Ive considered HSBCs terms and conditions. And I 
do find this to be in line. So I cant say HSBC have done anything  wrong.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt its 
been a difficult  and frustrating time. I know my decision  will come  as a great frustration and 
disappointment to him. But overall, based on the evidence I have, I cant  fairly say HSBC have 
acted unreasonably or treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. So I wont be asking them  to do anything.
Mr and Mrs H are entitled to reject my decision.  If they do reject it then it is not binding on them  or 
HSBC. And it is then open to them to raise these  issues in any legal proceedings should they 
choose to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9332478