K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Chelmsford Mortgage  Solutions (CMS) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
In 2005 Mr S met with CMS who arranged a mortgage for him. Around the same time he 
also took out PPI designed to protect his mortgage payments in the event he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost around £30 a month and it provided  a benefit of just under £700 a month  and 
would do so for up to 12 months upon  a successful claim.
I issued my provisional decision of August 2019.  Here I said I was likely to not uphold  this 
complaint and in summary I gave the following reasons for my provisional  conclusion:
CMS gave Mr S advice and made a recommendation for PPI.
I thought it was likely PPI was discussed separately from the mortgage discussion 
and arrangement and I wasnt  persuaded Mr S was led to believe or told he had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage   I thought  he likely chose and agreed to take it out.
PPI was suitable for Mr S based on his circumstances at the time  for example he 
didnt have existing  means to fall back on to help pay his mortgage  if things  went 
wrong and he wasnt  affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover.
While  the information Mr S got about the policy might  not have been as clear or as 
timely as it might  have  been, there was nothing about the cover  which  would have 
likely put him off taking  it out had CMS done anything  more.
Overall I didnt think Mr S had lost out as a result  of having PPI.
CMS replied and said it had nothing further  to add.
Neither Mr S nor his representative has responded to my provisional decision; albeit Mr S 
representative confirmed  safe receipt.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr S hasnt responded to my provisional decision.  But I know  his 
representative received it and was reminded of the deadline for responses.  So I think  if Mr S 
and/or his representative wanted to respond they wouldve done so by now.  I therefore  think 
its safe for me to go ahead and issue my final decision.
On the basis that Ive not been  given anything new to consider, I see no reason to change  
my mind  or depart from my reasoning  and overall  conclusion as set out in my provisional  
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Ref: DRN90637282Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9063728