K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that esure Insurance Limited gave him poor service when he made a claim 
on his motor insurance policy, and that the policy didnt provide the cover he wanted.
background
Mr F is unhappy  with the sum esure offered  him after his car was written-off in a non-fault  
accident in which he was injured. Mr F says the policy wording about courtesy car provision 
wasnt clear.  Hes also unhappy  with the advice esure gave him about optional  legal cover.  
As Mr F didnt have legal  cover, after the accident  esure referred him to a separate  legal firm 
(firm A) for advice  about his personal injury claim. esure also offered him the option of 
using firm B  which wasnt part of esure  - for car hire. 
Mr F later had problems with the services provided by firm A and firm B. esure said it 
couldnt help,  as both firms were independent of esure. It didnt agree that its advisors  had 
misled him. But it agreed to an increase  in the settlement  sum for Mr Fs car. As esure  
thought it could have handled the total loss process better,  it also offered Mr F £150 
compensation. And it said it would arrange  and pay for a hire car for him whilst he waited for 
the total loss payment to come through. Mr F wasnt satisfied with esures offer.
Our adjudicator said she couldnt look into the actions of firms that were  separate  to esure.  
She thought  esure had given Mr F enough details about the legal cover on offer and had 
offered him a fair sum for his car. She didnt agree that the policy  wording about  courtesy  car 
provision wasnt clear. Mr F said esure  hadnt  fully explained the legal  cover. And in his view,  
it should have  been part of the policy. He insisted that the cars  valuation wasnt  right. Mr F 
thought esure should pay him £500  compensation, as he thought it had done nothing  for 
him. He said hed had to make 200 calls to sort out his claim. The adjudicator said shed 
pass on any itemised bills from Mr F to esure,  but he wasnt  able to provide any.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
the valuation of Mr Fs car
Under the policy, esure will pay the pre-accident market  value for a car. Ive listened  to the 
call between  Mr F and esures advisor  JR in which JR tried to resolve  Mr Fs complaint. He 
explained how the initial offer for the car was arrived at. esure used the valuations set out in 
the national trade guides  for similar  cars to Mr Fs car to check what  its market value was. 
Discounting the lowest trade guide  price, esure found that £2,632  was the average  price 
quoted. We checked that esure  had used the right figures - and we looked at an extra trade  
guide as well. We found the average of the three  guides to be £2,659, which  was in line with 
esures figure. Mr F found adverts quoting  higher  prices for cars like his. But we think the 
prices shown in adverts are generally unreliable, as theyre only asking prices, which are 
subject to negotiation. 
There was some pre-existing  damage  to Mr Fs car, so esure deducted  £627  from the 
settlement sum. We think its fair to make  reasonable  deductions  for such damage.  But when 
Ref: DRN92004112JR reviewed the matter, he thought some of the damage was due to normal  wear and tear  
to be expected on a car of its age. So he made a deduction for the other  pre-existing 
damage to the car then reduced  it by half, to £203.  I think that was a fair way to deal with the 
issue. From  the call Ive listened to, Mr F was content with the £2,550 JR offered him for his 
car. And I think esure dealt with the valuation in a fair and reasonable way.
legal assistance  cover
Mr F told JP that when  he bought  the policy, esures advisors said he didnt  need  to buy the 
optional legal cover  that was on offer. He said they told him it would only be needed should 
he be in an accident  with an uninsured driver. JP listened  to a call Mr F made in 2017 and 
several he made around the time of renewal in 2018. He said they showed esures advisors  
told Mr F what the legal  cover was for, and had offered it to him. Mr F said he didnt want it.  
Ive listened to the relevant calls.  During the 2017 call, Mr F asked what  legal assistance 
cover was. The advisor said it would provide up to £100,000  of legal help should Mr F be 
prosecuted for a motor offence. He said it could also help Mr F to recover losses not covered 
by his motor policy,  such as solicitors charges. Mr F said he didnt want to buy it. In one of 
the calls around renewal in 2018,  a different advisor asked Mr F if he wanted legal cover.  
Mr F didnt  query what it was, but said he didnt want it. In a further call the same  day, Mr F 
told an advisor he just wanted the cheapest  quote.   
I think esure made Mr F aware of the cover provided  by the legal assistance policy. The calls 
show that his memory of what  he was told about  it isnt correct. I think  its possible Mr F was 
given the wrong  information at some other point. But I think  its unlikely, given the content  of 
the 2017 call recording. When esures  advisors  raised the option of legal cover  at renewal in 
2018, Mr F asked no questions about it. I think he made it clear  that getting  the lowest price 
for the policy was his main consideration. 
Legal cover  was also explained  in the policy documents, although Mr F says they arrived 
late - and in his view the policy wording  is double-Dutch. But I think  it was open  to Mr F to 
ask esure  to clarify  anything that wasnt clear  to him. And he could have added  the legal 
cover to his policy  at any time, not just when the policy started. 
Before esures advisor raised with Mr F the option of using firm A for his personal  injury 
claim, she asked if he had any cover elsewhere that he could use to help him to pursue it. 
Mr F said he didnt.  The advisor  said firm A would review his claim free of charge  and would 
discuss the cost of going ahead with it. She said it would offer him preferential rates  but 
she also said Mr F may be able to find other firms  that offered  different terms. She said Mr F 
might have to pay some  of the costs that might arise if he used firm A. Mr F asked what  
would happen  if his claim failed, and the advisor  said firm A would  discuss that with him. 
I think the call recording shows that esure  didnt mislead Mr F or push him into using firm A. 
He could have  decided not to speak to firm A at all. Or he could have contacted  other legal 
firms after an initial call with firm A. I think Mr F must have been content at the time with the 
service and terms firm A set out. I dont think esures responsible for any later failings on 
firm As part, as its a separate company. If Mr F has unresolved  issues  with firm A, he can 
ask the legal ombudsman service to consider the matter. 
As Mr F thinks most motor policies include legal cover as standard, he thinks  it should have 
been part of esures policy.  We cant tell an insurer what to include in its policies. But 
anyway, I think motor  legal protection is usually sold as an add-on  to a motor  policy. I think  
Ref: DRN92004113esure acted  in line with general industry practice  in offering it to Mr F as an option that he 
could buy or not. 
courtesy car / hire car 
The policy wording shows that a small courtesy car will be available  only whilst a policy 
holders car is being repaired. It says a courtesy car wont be available  once esure  decides  a 
vehicle is a total loss. When esures  advisor  spoke  to Mr F after the accident,  she said hed 
get a courtesy  car (although it would have been  withdrawn  when the total loss decision was 
made). But she also offered Mr F the option  of a referral to firm B. She was able to do that 
under a credit  hire arrangement,  as Mr F wasnt to blame for the accident. 
The advisor told Mr F that firm B was an independent hire company. She said it would 
provide a car similar to Mr Fs own car, and would  recover the cost from the other drivers 
insurer. She said firm B would explain its services to Mr F, and he could then decide whether 
or not to use firm Bs services. She said his option was to use the courtesy  car service 
provided under his own policy.  
Mr F said during the call that he wanted  a car with a digital  dash  which  he said isnt 
generally available in small cars. So from what  Mr F said, a small courtesy  car wouldnt have 
suited his needs. Firm B offered  larger cars.  Although Mr F later had problems with firm Bs 
hire, I dont think esures responsible for that. In my opinion,  the call shows that esure  made 
it clear that using firm B was one option.  Mr F chose to take that option  after talking to firm B 
about its services and terms of business.                
compensation
I think esures offer of £150  compensation was reasonable. It reflects esures acceptance 
that its total loss process could have been  better  handled. In particular, JR thought esure 
could have offered  the initial settlement sum to Mr F as an interim payment. I dont think  
theres evidence  of any significant  errors on esures  part that would justify the £500 
compensation Mr F seeks. I think esures  offer is in line with the sum Id have required it to 
pay Mr F had it not already proposed it. 
Mr F says he had to make  a huge  number of calls to try to resolve his claim. But he isnt able 
to show how many of them were made to esure. Since serious problems arose with firm A 
and firm B, I think  its likely that many of the calls were made to them. With no evidence  of 
the calls, I dont think its fair to ask esure to pay a sum towards  the cost of them.    
In my opinion, it isnt accurate for Mr F to say that esure did nothing  for him. It dealt with the 
loss of his car and I think it made  a fair offer to him for it. It tried to assist Mr F by giving him 
the option of referrals to other  firms where he had limited or no cover under his policy. I think 
the compensation it offered him was fair. I dont think theres anything to show  that esure  
misled Mr F or pushed  him into doing  anything. The serious problems Mr F had with hire and 
legal assistance  must  have caused  him great  inconvenience and distress.  But as I dont 
think esure acted unreasonably in dealing with his claim, I cant  uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Ref: DRN92004114Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9200411