K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr J between  May 2015 and 
July 2015. Mr Js borrowing history  based on what Sunny provided is as follows:
Loan Amount Date  loan 
takenDate loan repaid Instalments Minimum 
repayment
1 £100 7 May 2015 26 June 2015 6 £31
2 £100 5 July 2015 24 July 2015 6 £31
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Js complaint in part and thought loan 2 should not have been 
given. Sunny disagreed so the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN92291372Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make 
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from what  we 
know about Mr Js finances  that he had little disposable income when loan 2 was taken.
As Ive said above,  in order for Mr Js loan to be sustainably affordable for him, he needed  to 
be able to make the repayments on time,  while meeting  other reasonable commitments and 
without having  to borrow again.  I can see from the information Sunny obtained before 
lending loan 2 that Mr J had little income left over after meeting his usual monthly  living costs 
and credit commitments.
Mr J declared  monthly expenses of between  £921 against a monthly  income of £970  when 
taking out loan 2. I thought Sunny had enough information  to see that Mr J was likely to have 
little to no disposable income left to afford the repayments on loan 2. Or at the very least the 
results shouldve prompted Sunny to carry out further checks.
From what  I can see of loan 2, Mr J had £49 left after paying  his usual monthly  commitments  
and had to make a payment of £31 to Sunny. That would leave him with just £18 for any 
unexpected expenses and leaves almost  no margin for error in terms of his declared 
expenditure  which  is after all only an estimate.
Sunny had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable. So I think  it ought to have
realised that leaving  Mr J with little disposable income (after the loan repayment) was most
likely to cause him difficulties. So it was wrong to give loan 2.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Mr Js credit file.
Ref: DRN92291373 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9229137