K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs K took out a credit card in 1999. At the same  time she was sold a PPI policy to protect 
her credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Mrs K disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. Mrs K is mainly  concerned that she didnt know she had PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K took out her credit  card with PPI by filling in a postal  application.  Theres a section on 
the form headed Extra optional services  where PPI is mentioned. So I think the way the 
application form is set out makes  it clear that it was up to Mrs K to say if she wanted to take 
out PPI with her credit  card - and that PPI was additional to and separate  from the card.  
Mrs K indicated on the form that she wanted to have  PPI with her credit  card.  So, on 
balance, I find that Tesco made Mrs K aware  that PPI was optional and it was added to her 
account when  she chose to have it. 
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs K, so it didnt have to check  the policy  was suitable  
for her. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mrs K enough  information  to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her. 
Mrs K was eligible for the policy  when she took it out. 
Looking at the other means Mrs K couldve  relied  on to make  her credit card repayments if 
she couldnt work I think she couldve benefitted from having the PPI if shed needed to 
claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs K told us her employer wouldve paid 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months  per 
accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided  better protection  than she couldve relied 
on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs K 
with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind  that she mightve had 
some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.  
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs K lost her job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Ref: DRN95522392Although she was eligible for death in service  benefit from her employer, PPI provided a 
different sort of cover  and paid out in different circumstances.
Its possible some information Tesco gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mrs Ks case. So, I dont  think having more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to have PPI.
I dont think its likely  that the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs K at the time she bought the 
policy. But from what Ive seen, Mrs K hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford  the monthly 
premiums. And she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to so it seems  Mrs K 
wanted this type of cover at the time.  Looked  at overall, I think  Mrs K still wouldve decided  
to buy the policy if shed been  better informed as it provided her with worthwhile protection.  
I dont think its likely  that better information wouldve put her off buying it.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K 
because: 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mrs K about that. Because Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC didnt  tell Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  what Mrs K told us about  a successful PPI 
claim shed  made concerning a different account where she didnt know  she had PPI. But 
I am concerned here just with her complaint about the PPI sold with this credit  card.  And for 
the reasons I've explained, these points dont change my conclusion.
what Tesco Personal Finance PLC needs to do
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has to pay back to Mrs K any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also 
pay back to Mrs K any extra interest she paid because of that.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs K 
the difference between what Mrs K owed and what she wouldve owed if the commission 
and profit share it got hadnt been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC should  also pay Mrs K 8%* simple interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off the 
credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs K can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN95522393my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But (if it hasnt already)  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs K any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9552239