K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them  with mortgages in February 1998 and in July 1998. 
background
Id like to begin  by saying how sorry I am that this complaint has been with us for so long.
Much of this was due to a legal matter which has had an impact of some  cases which are 
very similar in nature  to Mr and Mrs Bs case. I also note that the company representing 
them is no longer authorised as a claims management company. That caused some delays 
too.
Nevertheless, I see that one of our adjudicators did write to Mr and Mrs B some considerable 
time ago to tell them we didnt think this was the type of complaint that we would uphold.
The company representing them at that time asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs principal  point of complaint was that they didnt want, need or ask for the 
PPI. They  are adamant they were not given any option or choice about having  it with either 
mortgage.
Whilst Im sure this is their honest and genuine recollection now,  having looked through the 
documents still left from the sale, the evidence  points strongly the other  way.
mortgage 1
I can see, for example, that on the first mortgage  application form theres a note about  giving  
Mr and Mrs B a quote about PPI. 
This of course doesnt mean they agreed to it there and then, but I think it at least  shows  it 
was discussed.  There then follows a separate insurance needs form which  explains that Mr 
and Mrs B want this type of policy but only to cover  Mr B, for what  looks like accident,  
sickness and unemployment protection. Its noted down on the form that Mrs B didnt  require 
the cover  at that stage. So Mr B signed  the document as the person to be insured. He also 
then signed the form again at the bottom, alongside Mrs B, as this was a joint mortgage.
YBS told us that this particular PPI policy was free of charge for the first six months. And I 
can see this  and the fact Mr and Mrs B had specifically asked for PPI  was set out in their 
Mortgage Offer. A Mortgage Offer is an important document which  I feel they would have  
both wanted to read quite carefully. Theirs  said You have chosen to take out mortgage 
payment insurance  to cover a monthly amount of £260. We will not charge you for the 
Ref: DRN91209892premium for the first six months. This information was followed up in an explanatory  letter to 
Mr and Mrs B and also a PPI policy schedule.
On 6 March 1998,  I see a note was made on their application file saying that Mr and Mrs B 
had opted to actually widen the level of protection  they wanted  to now cover Mrs B as well 
as Mr B. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but Im afraid all these things  represent  very strong and 
persuasive evidence  that they actually engaged in this PPI sale.  Its also clear  to me that 
they gave an element  of ongoing  thought towards  their mortgage protection needs and 
decided it was something they wanted to have. 
I think the evidence  from this case is therefore clear  that YBS properly obtained their 
consent and Mr and Mrs B would have known the cover wasnt  something they needed  to 
have if they didnt want to. 
mortgage 2
This takes  us to the second  mortgage PPI which seems to have been  established  when Mr 
and Mrs B were re-arranging their finances. Being so close to their previous mortgage 
application, the process was largely  the same. 
Once again I see that they signed an insurance needs form which was a separate 
application form to the one used  for their corresponding mortgage. The amount of PPI cover 
was increased moderately, in line with their overall borrowing. Their  Mortgage Offer 
contained an almost  identical statement about their PPI to the previous one Ive described 
above. And they were sent a letter dated 13 July 1998 explaining what theyd bought.
In summary,  I think its clear YBS correctly obtained Mr and Mrs Bs consent  for the PPI.
Im not completely  convinced whether the PPI was recommended to Mr and Mrs B by YBS 
as part of an advised sale.  YBS says it didnt  recommend the cover but this particular point 
doesnt affect my decision anyway,  because I think it was a suitable  product for them.
I say this because  they were both eligible for the cover and I dont think would have  been  
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The cost of 
the cover  was similar to other  policies  being  marketed at the time.
Also, Mr B only received statutory sick pay, so I can see how he could have had a use for 
the cover  like this and I dont think recommending it to him would have been unreasonable.  
Mrs B may well have had better protection through her job, but that doesnt mean the PPI 
wasnt of use to her. Collectively, these were mortgages secured against their home and so 
the consequences of not being able to keep up payments could have been significant. The 
cover, on the other hand, could have helped pay their mortgage for up to a year if they had 
needed to ever make a claim. 
So I think the PPI was suitable.
YBS also had a duty to ensure the PPI cover was explained clearly. Im going  to summarise 
this issue because Ive seen enough  documentation  from the sale to satisfy  me that the 
disclosures about  cost, who was insured and what the PPI did, were  substantial.  I think  Mr 
and Mrs B were given quite a lot of information about the policies and overall, I think  they 
had enough information on which to make  an informed choice. 
Ref: DRN91209893Whilst I appreciate this is disappointing  for Mr and Mrs B, the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
A final point I need to address is any commission or profit share YBS got from these two 
PPI sales. The Financial  Conduct Authority issued guidance some time ago about sales  
where the commission rate was over 50%.  We now know this didnt happen in this case, so 
Im sorry  to say that Mr and Mrs B arent  due anything  back from this aspect.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  require Yorkshire 
Building Society to do anything to put matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9120989