K821x#15complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejected a claim she made 
on her buildings  insurance policy for damage  to her dining room  ceiling.  
background
In March of 2019  Ms C discovered water  dripping from her dining room  ceiling following a 
named storm earlier in the week and a couple of further days and nights of inclement 
weather. She has told us her partner put a screwdriver through a hairline crack that had 
appeared in the ceiling paper and a large amount of water poured through, breaking  the 
plasterboard. Shes confirmed that no water has come through  since.
Ms C made a claim  to RSA and it sent out its emergency service  to look at the roof and do 
any temporary repairs needed. She says the contractor who attended  looked  at the roof and 
said he thought  the water had got in through the flashings at the rear of the dormer.
A few days  later RSA sent a surveyor out to assess the claim. The damage  to the ground 
floor ceiling was below the area of the edge  of a large first floor dormer. It was detailed there 
was no damage to the pitched roof that would  be consistent with storm damage  slipped,  
broken or displaced  tiles. It was, however, noted  that there was a small split in the felt in the 
left, front corner of the flat dormer  roof. The flashings where  the dormer joined the pitched 
roof structure were  considered to be in good condition.
RSA declined the claim as it concluded  the water  had entered  Ms Cs home because the flat 
roof had deteriorated rather  than there  being  storm damage to it. The internal damage claim 
was declined because  the surveyor didnt think it had been caused as the result  of one 
incident of storm.
As Ms C wasnt happy with RSAs conclusions, she arranged for a roofer  to look at her roof. 
The roofer  said that there were no visible cracks, blisters or splits in the felt of the flat roof. 
Nor were there loose  or split edgings or dips in the flat roof. He also found no visible damage 
to the pitched  roof or the flashings. The guttering was fine. No faults  were  found with either 
roof covering  that would allow water  to enter the building. 
Ms C provided copies of photographs her roofer took and his comments to RSA.  It didnt 
change its mind about the claim.  It said the photographs  showed  no sign of storm damage to 
the exterior of the roof and if there was not external storm  damage any internal damage  
would not be covered.  As such, the internal damage would only have been  covered if Ms C 
had had accidental  damage cover, but she unfortunately didnt.
Ms C complained. RSA said the damage  to the flat roof was due to the felt having 
deteriorated, which would not be considered storm damage and not covered by the policy. It 
also said that there was no storm on or around  the incident date. It concluded the decision to 
reject the claim had been right  the damage hadnt been solely due to a storm event  and 
that bad weather had highlighted a maintenance issue.
Ms C didnt accept RSAs conclusions and referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.   Further  
discussions were held between Ms C and the investigator,  but as agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN97697232I issued a provisional decision on 3 September 2020. In that document  I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Ms C believes the damage to her home was caused by a named storm which  affected the 
area she lives in on the night of 12/13  March 2019. She noticed the damage two days later.  
RSA has said there  wasnt a storm around the time the damage was noticed,  so I looked at 
the weather data available from the time. Ms Cs home isnt right next to a weather station. 
She is almost equidistant between two weather stations   one seven miles to the north  of 
her and the other eight miles to the south. I examined the information  from both stations.  On 
the night of the named  storm the station to the north of her recorded winds of slightly below  
storm force (42 mph),  but the one to the south of her recorded  winds  of several miles per 
hour higher (52 mph) than the threshold  to be considered a storm. 
It is normal for weather  conditions to become milder  the further  the distance from the centre 
of a weather event.  It would appear the more northerly weather station was outside of the 
storm event, although  it suffered  bad weather. It is unlikely  the wind speeds would have 
dropped by an equal amount each  mile between the two weather stations, but I think it is 
quite likely, given the wind speeds  at each  of the stations, Ms Cs home was subject  to storm 
conditions on the night in question.
As I am satisfied Ms Cs home  was subject to storm conditions, shortly before the water 
damage to her ceiling,  I think  it likely the water involved came from that storm. It isnt clear 
how the water entered the building.  RSA says the dormer roof is damaged  and that allowed 
rain to enter.  However,  Ms Cs roofer says the roof is in a good state of repair.  Also,  the 
photographs supplied  by RSA dont clearly  show  what it considers is damage to be damage. 
In addition, if the water entered  the property through the dormer roof, its not entirely  clear  
how it managed not to cause any damage in the room that dormer roofed, but accumulated 
in the ceiling of the floor below. Ms C has said the emergency roofer RSA sent out couldnt 
identify where the water  had entered the property and suggested  that it might have been 
forced under the flashings by the wind. Looking at the photographs of the flashings  they 
dont appear to be obviously damaged or deteriorated, but there are areas where the gap 
between the tiles and the flashing appears  to be slightly larger. So it is possible the flashings 
are to blame  for the water  ingress.
Overall, it isnt clear how the water  entered the property, but I dont think that matters. Ms Cs 
policy covers damage caused  by a storm. That damage might be in the form of wind or water 
damage. Whilst at one point RSA said the internal  damage would  only be covered  if there  
was storm damage to the roof, the policy terms and conditions dont appear to include that 
requirement.
I note the water damage didnt become apparent for a couple  of days after the storm. I dont 
think this delay indicates the damage wasnt caused by the storm. Its clear from the 
photographs taken  of the void above the ceiling the water travelled along the wooden 
timbers to get to where it collected above the ceiling.  There  also appears to be a layer  of 
insulation below that and then the ceiling plasterboard itself.  I dont think its surprising it took 
some time for the water ingress to become apparent in Ms Cs dining room.
I am satisfied the water  that caused damage  to Ms Cs home  was as a result  of a storm. As 
such, I dont consider RSA was right to decline Ms Cs claim for the reasons it did.
Ref: DRN97697233Ms C accepted the provisional decision and reiterated that there had been no further  ingress 
of water into her home since the night in question. She also highlighted that the emergency 
service attended her home but didnt complete any works to her roof.
RSA didnt accept  my conclusions. It forwarded  further comment from its representative 
(which had inspected  Ms Cs property). It reiterated  that it had found no storm related 
damage to either the flat or pitched roofs. It said there is clearly a defect in Ms Cs roof as 
even with storm force winds,  water  shouldnt enter  a property if a roof is sound. 
relevant policy  terms 
The buildings are insured against  loss or physical damage by the following  causes

2 Storm or flood
What is not covered
Damage by frost
Damage to fences,  hedges or gates
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset, along with the 
further comment from the parties,  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  Having  done so, it has not changed my conclusions.  
I remain satisfied that Ms Cs home was subject to storm conditions  shortly before the 
damage became  apparent. As such, the water damage to the interior  of her property should  
be considered  to be storm damage. Whilst there may not be wind damage to either  of the 
roofs on the property,  that doesnt  exclude the claim for the internal damage as it is not a 
requirement under the policy for there to be external damage  for internal damage to be 
covered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement  of the complaint  I require  
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to reconsider Ms Cs complaint in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9769723