K820x#14Complaint
Mr M on behalf of the estate of Mrs M has complained about the surrender of two whole of 
life policies that Mrs M took out with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.  He is 
unhappy that Mrs M was written to and given the option to cash  in her policies early  without 
providing her with full information about the consequences of taking up the option.  Mr M 
believes Mrs M lost out as a result  of taking the proceeds early.
Background
In April 2015, Prudential  wrote to Mrs M about  a life policy she had taken out several years 
previously. Although the policy was a whole of life policy  designed to pay out on death  
due to her age, Mrs M was given  the option to receive then full benefit  early. She was given 
the choice to take the proceeds  immediately or leave the policy running. Mrs M returned the 
relevant paperwork  for two policies she held and asked to take the proceeds early. The 
policies were encashed, and benefit paid. 
In 2018, Mrs Ms son contacted Prudential to query why the policies had been paid out early.  
He said the proceeds  had gone directly to pay for Mrs Ms care home fees and she didnt 
receive any of the benefit. He complained that Prudential should have told Mrs M to seek  
financial advice, so she would understand the consequences of encashing the policies. He 
also said the policies  were taken out to pay for funeral costs but there is now no cover in 
place for the intended purpose of the polices. 
Prudential responded to the complaint. It said that it made  a commercial decision to write to 
all customers over the age of 90, who held life polices, giving them the option to receive the 
policy benefits early. It says it was Mrs Ms decision to take the benefit early  and didnt think  
it needed to provide financial  advice.  Unhappy with the response, Mrs Ms complaint was 
referred to this service.      
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
didnt find that Prudential had done  anything wrong in giving Mrs M the option  to encash her 
policies early. He did consider  the comments made by Mr M about Mrs Ms vulnerability but 
didnt agree that Prudential had treated her unfairly. Mr M didnt  agree  with the assessment 
and remained of the view Prudential should have done more to help Mrs M when giving her 
the option. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered the letter Prudential sent to Mrs M in 2015 giving her the option  to 
take the benefit from her life policies early.  Im satisfied this provided a balanced, clear 
description of the options and didnt present either as more favourable.  The letter did make it 
clear that Mrs M could continue with the policy. It also said the option to take the money 
early remained  open for anytime in the future. I havent seen anything to suggest  Prudential 
were advising  Mrs M on what was the best option for her. The FAQs section of the letter 
explained that by keeping  a policy it could benefit  from future bonuses that may be declared 
in later years. So, I dont  think it would be fair to say Prudential intentionally induced Mrs M 
into taking the option to receive the policy values early. I note that Mr M believes Prudential 
Ref: DRN96817372hasnt followed regulatory principles and provided misleading information  but for the reasons 
described above, I havent  found this to be the case.  
Ive considered the points made  by Mr M about  what level of care he believes Prudential 
should have given Mrs M. This includes his comments  about whether Prudential should  have 
told Mrs M to seek financial advice. While this may have been  helpful, I dont think  it had an 
obligation to do this. I can understand that this is a difficult situation  for Mr M and his family, 
but I dont think  there is enough to say Prudential did something wrong here by not 
suggesting financial advice was sought.  I havent  seen anything  to suggest  Prudential were 
aware of Mrs M circumstances (other than her age) when it wrote to her in 2015, or of any 
specific vulnerability that meant it should  think further about the level of care needed. I agree 
with Mr M that an individual shouldnt be viewed as vulnerable purely due to their age. All of 
this means, I havent found that Prudential  provided a lack of care to Mrs M when it wrote to 
her in 2015.
Ive also considered the points made  by Mr M about whether Prudential should  have 
provided a statement to warn Mrs M that surrendering the policy  could have financial 
implications for long term care funding. Mr M says this is particularly relevant for Mrs M (due 
to her age) and this is a reason why more information should have been  given  to her. I do 
understand the point he is making here. From what Ive been told, it seems  Mrs Ms decision 
to take the proceeds came at an unfortunate  time for her financially because the monies 
were used towards contributing to her care home  fees, which would  have otherwise been  
covered by her local authority. But this doesnt  mean  Prudential  has caused her a loss. Its 
accepted that Prudential  was unaware  of Mrs Ms particular situation, so couldnt give her a 
specific warning. I also dont think Prudential was obliged to provide Mrs M with a general  
warning about  her eligibility for local authority funding for care costs. I know Mr M feels  
strongly that it should have, but I dont  agree  that Prudential needed to provide more 
information. 
Mr M has also queried whether encashing  the policies early  led to a lower benefit value 
being paid. I acknowledge that had the policies continued they did have the potential to 
increase in value  if further bonuses were added  before a death claim was made. But future  
bonuses arent guaranteed, and the date of claim was also unknown.  And as mentioned  
above the FAQs section  did highlight that a policy could receive further bonuses if retained 
and there  was no time limit placed on encashing a policy early. So, I dont find that Mrs M 
suffered a loss in this respect.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my findings, but I dont think  his Prudential  has done  
anything wrong  in providing  Mrs M with the option  to cash  in her policy early. 
Ref: DRN96817373My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Im required to ask 
Mr M on behalf of the estate of Mrs M to accept  or reject my decision before 20 March  2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681737