K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that its unfair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use her 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  compensation to reduce the debt from which  she was 
discharged when her Protected Trust came to an end, rather than paying it directly to her.
background
Ms W took out three  loans and with each  of the loans  she took out a PPI policy to protect her 
repayments.
In April 2004 Ms W entered  into a Protected Trust Deed as she was unable to repay  all her 
debts when they fell due.  This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy  (called 
sequestration in Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their 
creditors, which is administered by a trustee.
When Ms W entered into the Protected Trust Deed, RBS had a claim within the Protected 
Trust and after the Trust ended there remained  an outstanding unpaid amount that Ms W 
owed to RBS of £9,662.91. RBS didnt chase for this outstanding amount  that was left 
unpaid but it confirmed it closed the accounts as a result of the end of the Trust Deed. 
In 2017 Ms W complained  to RBS about  the mis-sale of a number of PPI policies. In 2018 
RBS wrote to Ms W to tell her that it was prepared to uphold  her complaint about  the mis-
sold PPI and in relation  to the three loans ending 9116, 6985 and 6971 was offering 
compensation of £7,515.73 (after tax) for all three loans. 
In its offer letters RBS indicated the compensation reflected a refund of the PPI premiums 
and the extra interest that Ms W had paid to date, together  with simple interest to 
compensate her for the time shed been out of pocket.
Ms W signed and returned acceptance  forms for the offers  from RBS for the PPI policies on 
1 August 2018.
RBS used the compensation to offset against  the amount that remained unapid after the end 
of the Protected  Trust. But Ms W doesnt  think the PPI compensation she was offered should 
be used by RBS in this way. She says as her Trust Deed was discharged around ten years 
before this she did not think  the reference  in the offer and acceptance forms applied.  Ms W 
said research she carried out indicated other  people  also complaining about compensation 
set off were  being treated differently. So she felt there were inconsistencies in the approach  
of RBS and her case should  be decided in line with an outstanding  court  case  being taken 
against RBS.
Our adjudicator said that he thought it was fair to set off the compensation against the sums 
that remained unpaid  to RBS. He said that Ms W had borrowed money from RBS which  
couldnt be chased for and wouldnt ever be repaid. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to 
repay the compensation to Ms W directly when she didnt have to repay RBS her debts.
Ms W was unhappy with the adjudicators  view and asked that the matter be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN96846872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
can I consider this complaint?
It was suggested  by RBS at one point that as Ms W had signed  an acceptance in full and 
final settlement accepting its offer then this service  should not consider this case.  We have 
to consider this in the light of the facts of each  case.
Ms W did sign an acceptance which said the compensation would  be used against any debt 
if she was or had been subject to a Protected  Trust Deed. But it went  on to refer to the 
compensation being set against any arrears  on her account. As the Protected Trust had 
ended Ms W may have believed she did not have an account  with RBS any longer so this 
clause did not apply. So the wording  may have perhaps  not been as clear as it could  have 
been.
RBS has accepted its correspondence wasnt as clear as it could be and has offered Ms W 
£25.00 for the trouble  and upset this may have caused. But it still says it is using the PPI 
compensation to set against the money  she never repaid to the bank.
Overall I think  Ms W is entitled to an answer and I think it is fair she should receive 
consideration of her complaint. So I am not dismissing this complaint on the basis  she 
accepted the offer made  in full and final settlement. 
can the compensation be used to set off against unpaid debts Ms W had with RBS?
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
As RBS has upheld Ms Ws PPI mis-sale complaint, in this decision Ive just looked at 
whether what its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent looked  at how the 
PPI policies came to be mis-sold. And Ms W hasnt raised any issues  about  the amount of 
compensation offered so I also wont consider this. Ms Ws complaint is that RBS has set-off 
the amount of compensation to reduce the loan amounts that havent been  fully repaid rather  
than paying the compensation directly  to her. 
So in this decision I need to decide whether  its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Ms Ws 
PPI compensation  offer to reduce  the amount unpaid  which  she wasnt  required to pay back 
(and was written off by RBS) after her Protected Trust Deed ended.
Ref: DRN96846873In this case the relevant law I need  to take account of is Scots law. In recent years there 
have been a number of cases  looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a Trust 
Deed has been  discharged. 
In Donnelly  v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2019] CSIH 56, The Inner House of the 
Court of Session  considered whether RBS could  offset PPI compensation against the 
amount that hadnt been repaid by the consumer when the Protected Trust Deed came  to an 
end. The terms of the Trust Deed in this case meant  RBS had, in effect, agreed that the debt 
would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive the debt to offset  the PPI compensation.
So I accept  that, on the assumption  that the relevant terms of the Trust Deed in Donnelly  are 
essentially the same as those in this case, then RBS could not, in court, successfully argue 
for set-off. 
In this case I am aware of and have taken  into account the relevant law. But whilst this 
service must take note of the relevant  law and what the courts  say, ultimately  I must apply 
an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Ms Ws 
complaint. Having done this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce 
the money Ms W borrowed and didnt  repay.
Just because Ms W entered  into a Protected Trust Deed and Ms W was discharged from the 
any unpaid amount when the Protected Trust ended, doesnt  make a difference  to what  is 
fair. Ms W had the protection  of the Trust Deed  and could not be chased for money that she 
had owed after the Trust Deed ended. But I think it would  be unfair to tell RBS to pay Ms W 
compensation when she doesnt  now have to repay the borrowing which  she had the use of 
and never  repaid. 
The fact that Ms Ws Protected  Trust had come to an end some  years before this offer of PPI 
compensation was made doesnt,  in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. I dont think it would be fair to require RBS to repay  
the PPI compensation directly to Ms W when she doesnt now need  to pay back to RBS the 
higher amount which she borrowed  when she took out these loans.
So it follows  from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation its 
offered, to reduce the outstanding amount which was never repaid to RBS following the 
closure of Ms Ws Protected Trust.
RBS has in addition  offered  to pay to Ms W £25.00 for the lack of clarity about the set off 
information provided. I think taking into account  all the circumstances  this is fair. This is one 
payment in respect of the poor information relating  to all Ms Ws cases  about mis-sold PPI 
that has been used for set off.
If Ms W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. If she doesnt accept it she 
is free to pursue her issues through the legal system.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Ms Ws compensation due for the 
mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount  she owed  and wasnt repay  when her Protected Trust 
came to an end. 
Ref: DRN96846874I am also satisfied that the £25.00 offered for trouble and upset is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9684687