K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  He also 
complains it re-credited a previous refund it had made for disputed  transactions.
HSBC says it is satisfied  the payments were authorised.
background
Mr P complained to HSBC about  some  transactions having been  made  on his account   the 
majority to iTunes - and said he hadnt made  them.  Initially, HSBC refunded some of the 
transactions but when Mr P continued  to make the same complaint,  HSBC  decided to 
investigate further.   This  was in November 2019 and by then, it had already refunded nearly 
£4000.
However, in November 2019,  upon  considering Mr Ps complaint further, HSBC concluded it 
would not be upholding  his complaint.  Eleven cards had been issued to Mr P over a five-
month period  and Mr P was suggesting  each card was being  compromised and these 
transactions were  being made  by someone  he did not know.
HSBC not only rejected  his complaint in November  but it also re-debited the refunds it had 
already given to Mr P.
Mr P then came to this service.  He told us he had spoken to iTunes who had agreed  these 
transactions could  not have been made  by him.  He also told us iTunes could only look into 
transactions going back three months  as older  transactions were cleared  from its system.  
Mr P said we should take this into account when  considering his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think he could  ask HSBC to do anymore, so the matter was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the transactions 
were authorised, HSBC  is entitled  to hold Mr P liable for them.  
Authorisation consists of two elements.  Authentication  which  in this case is the use of Mr 
Ps card details  and consent.  And I remind myself  it is for HSBC  to prove both elements if 
it is to hold Mr P liable.  Mr P does not need  to prove anything.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that HSBC has been  able to prove the 
element of authentication.  I then need to decide,  from the circumstances of the case, 
whether Mr P consented to these payments.
For the following  reasons,  I think he did:
-over a period  of five months, eleven  cards were  compromised.  I dont think  its 
credible that this could  happen  without Mr Ps knowledge;
Ref: DRN95835892-some  of the transactions complained off required the physical use of Mr Ps card and 
PIN.  Mr  P says he never shard  these with anyone;
-from looking at HSBCs notes, Mr P told HSBC when he first complained that he was 
registering his cards with Apple Pay.  He subsequently told his service  he did not 
have an Apple Pay account.   I think its more  likely than not that he did tell HSBC he 
had such an account;
-despite Mr Ps assertion that iTunes  had confirmed he could not have  made these 
transactions, the evidence he has provided from iTunes does  not support this 
assertion;
-during the period of the disputed transactions, Mr P logged onto his online banking.   I 
think its likely he would have seen these transactions yet did not report  them at the 
time;
-no further attempts  were made to use the cards  once HSBC had blocked  them.   This 
suggests to me that the person  using  them  knew they had been blocked.  I think  that 
person was Mr P.
I should also make it clear that I have placed  no weight on the fact that Mr P says he 
contacted the police.   He has provided  this service with a reference number.  I do not know  
whether that is a genuine number  but it wouldnt assist me if it was.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2021.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9583589