K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her a fee paying Additions 
packaged bank  account in 2002.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Fs complaint and didnt think that Barclays  mis-sold 
the Additions account to Miss F. 
Miss F disagreed and shes asked for an ombudsmans  decision. She mainly says that she 
wouldnt have purchased the account  unless it was recommended   and that Barclays 
advisor incorrectly informed her that having  the account would improve  her credit  rating.  
Miss F feels that some  of the account  features werent of any benefit to her - and although 
she partially benefitted from the overdraft facility, any savings were  offset  by the monthly  fee 
for the account.
Shes asked  for a review so this complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide Miss Fs complaint. 
Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss F says about  how she was sold this account. But what 
she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.  
I have to make my decision  based  on what I think is most likely  to have happened taking into 
account all the available  information and looking  at the wider circumstances.
Barclays says it didnt  recommend the account to Miss F  it simply provided her with 
information about the benefits and it was then up to her to decide if paying  for this account  
was right for her. It says that taking out a packaged  bank account isnt something that affects  
a persons credit rating.
Miss F told us that she was particularly interested in the overdraft  benefits  the account  
offered. It looks to me like she was able to benefit  from this feature of the account. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed or how Barclays  explained what  the Additions  
account offered.  But, on balance,  I think its likely Miss F chose to upgrade because she 
thought that the key feature it offered  the overdraft benefits that came with the Barclays  
Additions account - couldve  been  useful to her. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, and what this service knows  about the way Barclays  
sold the Additions account  around this time, I think its likely that Miss Fs account was 
upgraded at her request  when she chose to do so.
Ref: DRN90018472Even if Miss F now feels she didnt get full benefit from everything the Additions account  
offered her, this doesnt mean that the account  was mis-sold  or that Barclays has treated 
her unfairly. I think that Miss F was able to benefit overall  from having  the Additions  account, 
so this isnt a reason for me to uphold  her mis-sale complaint. She told us she wanted  the 
overdraft feature of the account  and she was able to benefit  from having it, so I dont think  
having clearer information about  the other  account features wouldve put her off taking  it out 
 even if she doesnt feel these were of use to her. 
Ive taken into account everything Miss F has said in response to the adjudicators  view but 
this doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9001847