K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Unum Ltds handling  of his claim under his income protection 
insurance policy.
background
Mr W held an income  protection insurance policy with Unum. The policy  would pay benefit, 
after a waiting period of 13 weeks, if Mr W were unable to work due to sickness or injury.
Mr W unfortunately suffered an injury  which he said prevented him from working. He made  a 
claim to Unum under his policy.
Unum asked Mr W to provide financial and medical  evidence in support of his claim. Mr W 
provided some evidence but Unum thought this was inadequate and so asked for more.
Mr W was unhappy at Unums handling of the claim and complained.  He thought  that the 
cost of obtaining financial evidence should  be borne by Unum  rather than himself. He 
considered that Unum  had failed to make  sufficient effort to obtain the necessary medical 
evidence after he had given  details  of his treating professionals. He considered its requests 
for evidence  were unreasonable. He said he shouldnt have had to continue  paying 
premiums from the time of his accident.  He also complained that Unum  had deleted emails 
which it had previously sent him. 
Unum didnt uphold  his complaint. Mr W therefore  referred his complaint to us.
   
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, Unum 
had acted reasonably.
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He said that Unum  had been  inconsistent in its 
requests for financial evidence. He said it hadnt been sufficiently proactive in seeking  
medical evidence  and should  have  arranged for him to undergo an independent medical 
examination. He believed Unum  should have reinstated the deleted emails  for a period of 
time after he requested  it to do so.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
Admission and continuation  of claims shall be subject to such information and medical 
evidence as [Unum] may require  
The policy doesnt  state it explicitly but I consider it reasonable  to assume  that responsibility 
for providing  any required information  lies primarily with the insured  person who is making 
the claim as it is generally up to the claimant  to prove their claim under any insurance policy.
Ref: DRN90827842The policy pays benefit if Mr W is totally unable to follow his occupation due to sickness  or 
injury. The initial amount of benefit to be paid is subject to a limitation so that, in combination  
with certain types  of ongoing income  which Mr W might receive,  it mustnt exceed one half of 
his earnings in the year prior to incapacity. This means that to assess the eligibility of a 
claim, Unum is likely to require both medical  and financial evidence.
Mr W thinks Unum has been inconsistent and unreasonable  in its requests for financial 
evidence. I dont find this to be the case.  It is up to Mr W to demonstrate he has earned 
enough in the past year to receive his full insured level of benefit. I recognise that being self-
employed he may find this more  difficult than someone who is in receipt  of a regular salary. 
Nonetheless, I think Unum has been  reasonable in pointing to the type of evidence  it would 
expect to receive from Mr W to prove  his claim.  I wouldnt expect Unum to pay for the cost of 
obtaining this evidence. I dont think that Mr W has so far provided satisfactory evidence to 
demonstrate his earnings.
Similarly, with the medical evidence  it is up to Mr W to provide Unum with sufficient evidence  
to show he is incapacitated.  Mr W told Unum  he would make an appointment with his GP at 
the end of the waiting  period at which he would discuss  his ability  to work. However, when 
Unum contacted the GP he told it that he had insufficient information  to comment  on this. If 
Mr W provides  a certain level of evidence  to Unum, I would then expect Unum to make 
contact with his treating  physicians if it needs further  clarification. However, I think Mr W still 
needs to do more to support the medical  aspect of his claim and to help Unum with its 
assessment. At the moment,  I dont think he has shown he was medically prevented  from 
working beyond  the end of the deferred period.
Mr W has asked  why Unum doesnt  pay for him to undergo  an independent medical  
examination (IME). This is an option allowed for in the policy  terms but Unum isnt obliged  to 
do this. I think it is reasonable  for Unum, at this stage, to instead put the onus  on Mr W to 
provide more information before it considers whether or not an IME is necessary.
Mr W thinks he shouldnt  have to pay premiums since  the time of the accident.  The policy 
states that no premiums  will be charged while a claim  is in payment. If Unum eventually  
accepts Mr Ws claim  then I would expect it to backdate benefit to the appropriate time and 
to refund his premiums  for this period.  Unless and until that happens, however, I see no 
reason why Mr W shouldnt have to pay the premiums for his policy.
Mr W objects  that Unum  deleted email messages addressed to him. Unum  deletes such 
emails after a certain period of time to ensure compliance with the EU General Data  
Protection Regulation. This is common  practice  across the insurance industry  and I find it 
reasonable. Unum  has explained that Mr W may request copies of previous emails  by 
making a subject access request to it. I think this is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9082784