K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited  (UIS) unfairly refused to pay 
his claim under his pet policy.
background
Mr K bought this policy with cover to start on 22 August 2017. On same  day, he took his dog 
to the vet and she was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection and given antibiotics.
Some months later sadly Mr Ks dog was then diagnosed with cancer  for which this 
complaint now concerns.  UIS said it was likely  from the clinical  history  that and the urinary  
tract infection was the start of the cancer.  On that basis since  that occurred within the first 
14 days of the policy  starting, it was excluded.
Mr K remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  Mr K disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Our role is to assess  and see if a business,  UIS here, did anything wrong on the basis of the 
policy wording and the evidence. We are not vets or medically trained. And it is for both Mr K 
and UIS to provide any evidence to prove any arguments. I am very sorry that Mr Ks dog 
was eventually put to sleep given  this illness.
Theres no dispute that on the same  day as Mr K bought this policy his dog was given 
antibiotics for a urinary tract infection. This means  that urinary tract infections and anything  
associated with them would be then excluded from cover. This is because it occurred within 
the first 14 days of the policy  starting and so is excluded.  The policy is clear on this and I 
dont consider this be unusual  as virtually every pet policy has such  an exclusion.
Unfortunately, Mr K specialist vet said for urinary tract symptoms; these symptoms  can 
sometimes precede diagnosis of transitional cell carcinoma. This vet also said when Mr Ks 
dog was first seen that there was five month  history  of abnormal urinary signs. Further  the 
vet note entry for 29 November says History: Since the of August intermittent haematuria, 
polyuria pollakiuria . This is blood  in the urine,  excessive urination  and excessive drinking. 
This shows me things  werent that stable following the initial  urinary tract infection.
Therefore on the balance  of probability  and in the absence of any other  evidence  to the 
contrary, I dont think  UIS didnt anything wrong  in interpreting what  Mr Ks specialist vet said 
as meaning such an urinary tract infection  can precede the diagnosis of this cancer. And that 
here, it most  likely did.
That in turn means given Mr Ks dog was treated for a urinary tract infection  on the same day 
he bought the policy, his claim for cancer  is correctly excluded.
Ref: DRN96846672my final decision
So whilst I do understand Mr K will be disappointed  with my decision, for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9684667