K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998.  Mr W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. 
Having done that, Ive decided that Mr Ws PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr W signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to 
applying for the mortgage itself. And he set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI as a separate 
cost  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgages cost. He was then sent a welcome letter  
which thanked  him for choosing PPI and reminded him he could cancel it if he changed his 
mind. Of course, I cant be certain  what was discussed as I wasnt  there.  But I havent seen 
any evidence which shows that the PPI was displayed  as anything other than an optional  
extra, nor any evidence  that Mr W was put under unfair pressure to buy it. And I havent 
seen any wider problems  with Lloyds sales process from the time. So overall,  I think its 
most likely that Lloyds made Mr W aware  he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr W wasnt 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. He only had very limited 
benefits through work, whereas the PPI offered him much more comprehensive cover,  and 
wouldve paid out on top of his work  benefits.
I understand Mr W had some savings, but its worth bearing in mind that without PPI those 
wouldve been needed to cover all Mr Ws costs  not just the mortgage  so they wouldve  
only lasted so long.  So it still looks like the PPI offered him more  comprehensive  cover. 
Further, the mortgage was a very significant,  long-term commitment,  and there was no 
guarantee those  savings  would still be there  in the years to come.  And the PPI meant Mr W 
wouldnt have to use up his savings paying the mortgage, and could instead use them for 
other things  if he was off sick or lost his job. Its worth  bearing in mind  that this mortgage was 
Mr Ws sole responsibility, and if he fell behind  on the payments  he risked losing his home.  
Taking everything together, it looks like the PPI couldve really  been useful for him in 
protecting his home and giving some  peace of mind.  
Ref: DRN97155772Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr W about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr W chose to take out PPI, which  indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went  wrong. The policy 
was not bad value given  how much  it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9715577