K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Vernon Building Society changed the terms and conditions  of 
their mortgage and increased  the interest rate. They want to return to the original agreement 
and the lowest  available  interest  rate as agreed.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out an interest-only  mortgage  with Vernon in 2011 and say that the 
Vernon adviser told them that they would always get the lowest available interest rate. The 
term of the mortgage  was for 30 years and in the first two years they took out a discounted 
rate mortgage product with a discount of 2.5% on Vernons Standard  Variable Rate ( SVR) 
and for the remaining  period it would go on to the then SVR of 4.99%. Vernon offered a 
further discounted rate to Mr and Mrs R in 2013 and again in 2015. The mortgage product 
Mr and Mrs R chose in 2015  was for 3 years.
Vernon says that in 2015 it launched specific mortgage retirement  products as part of its 
standard residential mortgage product range. It says that at the end of Mr and Mrs Rs last 
product term in 2018 it wrote to Mr and Mrs R offering them  fixed term products that they 
were eligible  for. The Society says that it wrote  them  reminders and because  Mr and Mrs R 
hadnt accepted any of the products when the term of their previous product ended, their 
interest rate reverted  to the SVR.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that she 
felt that she couldnt comment  on what was said between Mr and Mrs R and the original 
mortgage adviser but that the terms of the mortgage  were clear. Our investigator  felt that 
Vernon had sent letters to Mr and Mrs R to let them know that the term of the discounted 
rate was coming  to an end so that they could shop around if they wanted to. She also 
believed that Vernon had offered Mr and Mrs R the best discounted rate that they qualified 
for. Mr and Mrs R disagreed saying in summary  that the original adviser  had told them  that 
they would  always  get the lowest available rate.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R, who were in their early seventies  at the time,  took out this interest-only  
mortgage with Vernon in 2011. When they took out the mortgage, they also took out a 
discounted mortgage product which fixed the interest rate for a couple of years. Mr and Mrs 
R also took out a discounted mortgage  product in 2013 and 2015. Mr and Mrs R appear  to 
have been happy with the mortgage products they got in those years but complain about the 
most recent products that Vernon offered them in 2018. Mr and Mrs R say that when they 
took out the mortgage, the adviser told them that when  the mortgage  came to be renewed 
that they would be offered the beat rate available. Mr and Mrs R say that Vernon isnt 
offering them its best rate. 
Vernon says that in 2015, it launched specific retirement products as part of its standard  
residential mortgage product range which resulted  in changes to the Societys mortgage 
eligibility criteria  to segregate non-retirement  and retirement products. So in 2018, Vernon 
Ref: DRN95858962offered Mr and Mrs R a product within the range that they were  eligible for which were the 
retirement products.
I have looked  at whether this was fair to Mr and Mrs R. As I understand it they were told by  
the adviser when  they took out the mortgage  that they would be offered  the best interest rate 
available. Unfortunately that adviser  no longer works  for Vernon.  Mr and Mrs R appear to 
have been satisfied with the mortgage  products they were  offered in 2013 and in 2015. The 
issue is that in 2018  the mortgage product they were offered didnt give as large a discount 
as the mortgage products they had previously been offered.
Im clear  that the terms of the original mortgage havent changed. What has changed is 
Vernons eligibility criteria  for mortgage  products with the introduction  of non-retirement and 
retirement products.  I have to accept that Vernon as a commercial organisation is entitled to 
adjust its range of products and it gave  no commitment when Mr and Mrs R took out the 
mortgage that these would  always stay the same. I do understand that it must be very 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs R to face paying a higher  rate of interest than they have been 
paying. But Vernon has offered to put Mr and Mrs R on the best interest rate that they are 
eligible for and so I cant fairly say that Vernon  has done anything  wrong.
There is one other  issue which is that Mr and Mrs R are on the interest  rate that they are 
eligible for but could be on a lower  rate if they submitted a Lasting  Power  of Attorney. 
Vernons lending  criteria  requires  them to submit this form to get the lower  rate. I dont 
consider this unreasonable and will leave this to Mr and Mrs R. But for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9585896