K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc has increased  the way it calculates the 
minimum repayment on his credit card account. 
background
NatWest said it hadnt  done anything wrong.  It said consumers who only pay around  the 
minimum repayment every month  hardly reduce the balance on their account. So the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) recently  introduced a new regulatory change  to 
encourage customers to pay their balance back faster than before.
Mr L accepts that under  the FCAs definition he is someone who is in persistent  debt.  But he 
thinks NatWests new way of calculating the minimum  repayment  far exceeds the FCAs 
requirements. He would struggle to pay the new increase on the minimum payment. He 
thinks that by paying  a lesser amount he would still be meeting the new regulatory 
requirement.
When he complained  to the bank NatWest offered him a three  month period where it would 
waive interest payments.  But it said the only other  options he had were to accept the new 
terms and conditions or to cancel  the card.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  She could see its terms and 
conditions allow the bank to make changes  to those terms and conditions at any time. And it 
had to comply with any regulatory changes made  by the FCA. But if the bank makes any 
changes to its terms and conditions it has to give 30 days notice. And she could  see itd 
done that.
She listened to the call Mr L had with NatWest where it offered him a financial health check  
or a waiver  of three months  interest  on his account.  And she thought  these were  reasonable. 
It offered  him the option of keeping the same terms and conditions, but if he accepted  that 
he would  need  to close the card. And he would need to consider a repayment plan. But Mr L 
declined all the options.
Mr L was disappointed with her opinion. He didnt think  NatWest had followed the sequence  
of events the FCA had laid down. He accepted  NatWest had the right to change its terms 
and conditions but he thought the new terms directly  countermand  the rules as laid down by 
the FCA who is the higher authority. He said this change  has meant hes in a worse 
financial position than he wouldve been in if the bank had given him the 18-months 
timescale in the FCA rules to manage  his own affairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to get some more  information  from NatWest,  and in December 2018 
it told us it was changing its policy back to what it was before. It said it would be writing  to all 
its customers who had been affected  by this policy decision. Mr L received his letter at the 
end of February 2019. The letter said the change to Mr Ls credit  card agreement will take 
effect from 1 April 2019 but his reduced minimum payment would be from 1 March 2019. 
Ref: DRN98358762Mr L said he was happy with NatWests decision to reverse  its policy on the calculation  of his 
minimum payments. But he wasnt happy with some  of the content of the letter. He said it 
didnt make clear what stage hed reached in the timescale of the new FCA persistent debt 
regulations. Our investigator went back to the NatWest to ask it to clarify this point but it said 
it couldnt give Mr L any more information.
Mr Ls initially complained  to us about the way NatWest changed  its calculation  of his 
monthly minimum repayments. Since this Service has been involved the bank has reversed 
its position. And Mr L tells us hes happy  with that. But he now wants further  information  
about the way NatWest  is applying the new FCA regulations to his account. But NatWest 
isnt able to give him that information  right now as the FCA guidance is something its 
continuing to consider  and apply. And from what Ive seen  so far I cant see its not following 
that guidance.
For all those reasons, at the current time I dont think  NatWest  has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835876