K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 2001. 
I know that Mrs C applied  for her credit  card with Halifax.  But BOS is responsible for 
complaints like this about Halifax.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to BOS  for the rest of this 
decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs C disagreed with that view and she asked for an ombudsman  to review  the complaint. In 
the meantime,  BOS offered to pay some  of the PPI premiums back to Mrs C. The matter has 
now been passed to me to make a final decision.  
I want to acknowledge  at the outset that I can see Mrs C has been waiting a very long time 
for this complaint  to be given to an ombudsman.  I am most grateful to the parties for their 
patience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
After taking account of all of the evidence, Ive decided that this policy wasnt mis-sold.  Ill 
explain why below. 
I can see from the documents that have been provided to me that this policy  was sold during 
a meeting between  the parties.  I cant know what was said during that meeting. Mrs C hasnt 
told us a lot about it. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at the 
paperwork thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs C would have known the policy was optional  
and she didnt have  to buy it. I can see that a box has been ticked on Mrs Cs credit 
agreement to say she wanted PPI. I acknowledge that the box has been ticked  
electronically. But I think it probably  reflects what was discussed between  Mrs C and the 
BOS representative  at the time.  And I can also see that Mrs C had rejected some other 
financial products  that were available. I think that probably shows  shed  made a choice  about  
which products she wanted.   
BOS told us it advised Mrs C to buy this cover. Thats  a harder test for it to satisfy because it 
had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for her needs. To help me decide whether it was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI policy. And Ive also thought  
about what Mrs C told us about her personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if Mrs C had become  unwell  and unable  to work, 10% of her credit  card 
balance would have  been repaid for every month  she was unable to work  up to a maximum 
of 12 months . Mrs C had been  in her job for around 4 years  at that point, so I think  its likely  
the PPI would have paid out for longer  and in addition to any means she had in place from 
Ref: DRN94700742her employer. And Mrs C told us that she didnt have any savings to use towards  
repayments if she was out of work.  
Mrs C told us she was in good health  at the time when she bought this cover. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
BOS still had to give Mrs C enough  information about the PPI so she could decide for herself 
whether it was right for her. Its possible that BOS  didnt  tell her everything it should  have 
done. But I dont  think more or better  information  would  have put her off buying the policy. I 
think she probably chose  this cover at the time. And I think  it could have been helpful  for her 
if she was out of work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs C paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  If it hasnt already  done so, BOS  will make  
arrangements to pay Mrs C now that Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9470074