K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds service  in connection with a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Ms Ms car was damaged  by stones falling from a truck  in front of her. She claimed on her 
policy but was unhappy with Ageas service.  In particular she complained about the quality  of 
repairs and the time these  took. Ageas, through its approved repairer, offered her £200 
compensation for the impact  of the delays  in sorting  out the repairs. Ms M, who is self-
employed, said that as a result of Ageas actions she was at least £5,000  out of pocket. She 
brought her complaint  to us. 
Our adjudicator thought Ageas had dealt with Ms M fairly. Ms M didn't agree so her 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ms Ms complaint has continued over a number of years and during that time she's made 
many detailed points.  I've considered everything shes  said but in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key outstanding points.
I note that at the outset Ms M was unhappy  that she had to pay her excess.  But her excess 
is always payable, even  where shes not at fault for a claim.  So unless she'd claimed directly 
from the other drivers insurer she was always going to have to pay her excess. So I don't 
think Ageas  did anything unfair in charging that. And Ageas wasn't able to recover its outlay 
- what it had paid to settle Ms Ms claim - from the other drivers insurer.  So it couldn't 
recover the excess from the other insurer either.
Ms M also complained that the approved  repairer  used her car without her authorisation. 
She said she had dashcam footage  to prove  that. But she hasn't been  able to provide that 
footage to Ageas or to us in a format that we can view it. So I havent  been able to see what 
that footage shows.  But I think its worth  noting  that, initially, the repairer used a driver  to 
both collect and return Ms M's car, and I understand that the repairers garage is based 
some distance from Ms M, so there  is likely to be footage of the repairer driving  her car for 
the journeys to both collect and return the car. 
Im aware that Ms M believes the repairer  used her car for other reasons and might have 
damaged it in the process. But I havent seen any evidence, beyond Ms Ms comments, that 
persuades me thats the case.
After Ageas approved repairer fixed Ms Ms car she was unhappy with the quality of the 
work. Ageas sent out an engineer to look at Ms Ms car and he agreed  that further work was 
required to put it right. So the car went bank to the repairer. Ageas gave Ms M a courtesy car 
in the meantime. Ms M remained unhappy  once she had her car back. The engineer  
inspected Ms Ms car again and he was happy  with the quality of repairs.  He said that some 
Ref: DRN95598032other issues Ms M referred to weren't caused by the incident or by Ageas repairer. And 
Ms M hasn't provided any other evidence - beyond her comments - that show  that the repair 
work wasn't  done  to an acceptable standard or that the other issues she encountered were 
because of anything  Ageas repairers did. So Im satisfied that Ageas  did, eventually, 
complete repairs to an acceptable  standard.
In total Ms Ms car was with the repairer for around  four weeks. The repairer acknowledged 
that the requirement for Ms M's car to go back  to it would  have  been  a cause of 
inconvenience to her. So it offered her £200  compensation which, after some  considerable 
delay, it paid to her. Ms M said that because the courtesy car Ageas provided didn't have 
large enough luggage capacity she was unable to fulfil some  of her business  appointments  
in rural locations and lost work  and therefore  income as a result.  So she thinks  Ageas should 
compensate her for her lost work and the time shes spent pursuing her complaint. But the 
courtesy car Ageas provided is all she is entitled to under the terms of her policy. And I can't 
see that she ever told Ageas it wasn't  suitable  for her. So I don't think Ageas  did anything  
wrong in providing  Ms M with the type of car that her policy entitles her to.
I understand that Ms M feels that she was forced to use the courtesy  car for longer than she 
could have anticipated, causing her losses. Both Ageas  and our adjudicator  asked Ms M to 
provide evidence to show  the losses she says shed suffered.  But Ms M didn't provide any 
evidence of loss to Ageas. And the evidence she sent to us doesn't  show any losses.  Shes 
shown us some diary entries  but I don't think those show any evidence of actual loss to her 
business or how those  relate to Ageas actions. So I don't think Ms Ms provided enough 
evidence to support  her claim for lost income.  And I think  that the compensation Ageas 
approved repairer  paid to Ms M is sufficient to address the inconvenience  arising  because  
the car had to go back for further repair. It follows that Im not going  to instruct  Ageas to take 
any further action.
I understand that Ms Ms been unwell. So I appreciated my decision is likely to add to her 
worries at an already  difficult time.  Thats an unfortunate knock-on effect of my decision. Its 
certainly not my intention  to add to Ms Ms troubles. And I hope she understands that I must 
come to my conclusions based solely on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint,  and mustnt  be swayed  by the difficult circumstances shes  experienced. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9559803