K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  that Quick Quid provided  to Mrs P from October  
2008 onwards.  Mrs Ps last loan was provided in August  2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ps complaint about  loans three to six. So he thought that Mrs P 
shouldnt have been provided with these loans. Quick Quid  didnt agree with our adjudicator  
in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs P, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mrs P was unlikely to have been able to make 
her loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan three. 
Ref: DRN95392592I say this because  by the time of loan three,  Mrs P had owed Quick Quid  money for a period 
of seven months. It had taken Mrs P six months to eventually repay loan two. And loan three  
was for 150%  of the amount Mrs Ps actions appear  to suggest that she was finding difficult 
to repay.  In my view, Mrs P owing Quick  Quid money for this period  of time, in these 
circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Mrs Ps inability to settle her loans over 
the life of the credit agreement. 
Mrs P was continually given new loans for increasing amounts despite  the number of late 
fees and deferrals on her account suggesting  that she was struggling financially. So Mrs P 
paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service an increasing debt to Quick Quid  over an 
extended period  at a time when Quick Quid ought to have been exercising forebearance.
I think that Mrs P lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans  because  they had the 
effect of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit  
intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. So Im upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint about  loans  three to six and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs P paid on loans three to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9539259