K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  his motor  insurance 
policy from the start (voided it) and declined his claim following an accident. He wants to pay 
the difference in premiums and so have the claim dealt with. 
background
Mr N was involved in a collision with a motorbike and he called  Advantage to make a claim.  
It took the details  and said it held the bike rider liable. It then passed Mr N to a credit  hire 
company and he had hire for about four weeks. Advantage then found that Mr N had 
undisclosed points  on his licence. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known about 
these. So it voided  the policy and declined the claim. The credit hire company then pursued  
Mr N for the hire charges.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Advantage was entitled to void the policy  and decline  the claim because  of the undisclosed 
points. But he thought Advantage had decided liability  without fully investigating  the claim. 
He thought it had passed Mr N onto the credit  hire company without warning him that liability 
would be investigated  and he could end up responsible for the hire costs. So he 
recommended that Advantage  should  pay the hire costs  and pay Mr N £150 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  it had caused. 
Advantage replied  that the hire costs had already been written  off by the credit hire 
company. But it said it wasnt responsible  for this arrangement  and it declined  to pay Mr N 
any compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr N was frustrated that Advantage voided his policy because of the 
non-disclosure of points on his licence. He said he wasnt aware  of them  although he did 
receive a fine at the time.  
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.  
Mr N bought his policy through  an online comparison site. I can see that he was asked if he 
had any motoring convictions or offences within the past five years. He was the sent renewal 
packs by Advantage  and he was asked to check that the information provided was accurate. 
So I think Mr N was asked a clear  question about  motoring offences and he answered it 
incorrectly.
Advantage has provided us with its underwriting guide and I can see that if it had known of 
the conviction it would have declined  to offer cover. 
Ref: DRN98824582Mr N explained that he was unaware  of the conviction. I can see that Advantage has 
refunded Mr Ns premium which I think indicates that it thinks  Mr N was careless in his non-
disclosure rather then reckless. So I think Advantage was entitled to void Mr Ns policy  and 
decline his claim. 
When Mr N first called  Advantage about the claim, it confirmed to him that he wasnt at fault.  
But it didnt then say that liability would still need to be investigated. It then passed Mr N on 
to a credit  hire company to deal with the hire and repairs.  
Credit hire doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service,  as it not regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Therefore, this service considers that if a business refers  a 
consumer to a company  outside of this services jurisdiction it should make  sure it provides 
clear and sufficient information  to the consumer. It also should not rely on information that 
may be provided by the credit hire company  or any other unregulated third party.
We expect the insurer  to explain that the credit hire and repair  company is a separate  
organisation and Mr N wouldnt be claiming under his own policy.
From listening to the call where Advantage referred  Mr N to the credit  hire company, I dont 
think it explained clearly  that this was a separate business and that Mr N wouldnt  be 
claiming for the car hire under  his policy. I also think that Advantage prematurely told Mr N 
that he wouldnt be held at fault. It should have explained that the claim would still need to be 
investigated before liability  was decided.  
Ive also considered what Mr N would have done  if Advantage had given  him better  
information about the credit hire arrangements. Mr N has explained  that he had access  to 
another car and only took the hire car as he thought it was provided as part of his policy. 
Advantage didnt  ask him if he needed  a hire car. So, I think if Advantage had better 
explained the risks, then Mr N wouldnt have accepted  the hire. 
When Mr Ns policy was voided,  the hire company then pursued  him for the hire costs. Mr N 
had letters and calls from debt collection agencies. I can see that the hire charges have now 
been written off. But I think this trouble and upset  could have been avoided  if Advantage had 
given Mr N better information when it referred him to the credit  hire company. The 
adjudicator recommended  that Advantage should pay Mr N £150  compensation for this. I 
agree that this is fair and reasonable as this is in keeping with what  Id award in similar 
situations.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr N £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9882458