K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the amount she received following a claim against her asset 
protection insurance policy  with Motors Insurance Company  Limited. Car Care  Plan Limited 
administers the policy. 
background
In August  2018,  Miss M was involved in an accident that wasnt  her fault. She made a claim 
against both her motor  insurance policy and her asset protection  policy.  Her motor insurers 
said that her car was a total loss and that its pre-accident  market value was £25,840. Miss M 
had a finance arrangement in place and I understand that Miss Ms motor insurer paid 
£22,652.30 to the finance  company.
Car Care Plan paid Miss M £2,856 but she was expecting it to pay her £6,936.70, which  is 
the difference between the amount she paid for her car - £29,589 - and the amount she 
owed to the finance company. 
Miss M says that she phoned Car Care Plan and it told her that shed receive  the difference 
between her cars original  value  and the amount she owed. Miss M says shes  out of pocket 
by £4,080.70. She says that this matter has affected her health. 
Our investigator thought that Car Care Plan had settled Miss Ms claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. He also thought  that Car Care Plan had given Miss M correct  
information. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She said:
She spoke with more  than one agent  when she phoned Car Care Plan. 
It wasnt fair that deductions were made from the price she paid for the car. 
Her insurer paid £22,652.30 to her finance provider and her asset protection policy 
should have paid up to the value of her car. 
The sale of the asset protection policy wasnt in accordance  with the relevant  rules. 
She still doesnt have  a car and this matter has affected her health. 
She hasnt received  the money she paid for her car. 
The deductions Car Care Plan made  from the purchase price  havent been 
explained.
The investigator responded to say that Car Care  Plan had paid what it was obliged  to pay 
under the policy  and that it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Miss M has very strong feelings about this matter. 
However, I trust that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what  I consider 
to be the central  issues.    
Ref: DRN90276952I am very sorry  to disappoint Miss M but her asset protection policy doesnt provide the cover 
she was expecting. She was expecting Car Care Plan to pay her the different between  what 
she paid for her car (£29,589) and the amount she owed  the finance  company when that 
debt was settled  (£22,652.30). But that wasnt what the policy said. 
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the asset protection  policy,  which say:
Following the Total Loss of Your Vehicle during the Period of Insurance , We will pay the 
difference [] between  the Insured Value  and the Purchase Price  of Your Vehicle as 
confirmed in the net sales invoice. 
The Insured Value is defined in the policy as the market value of the car as assessed  by 
Miss Ms insurer  at the date of the total loss. Miss Ms insurer said that the market  value of 
her car at the time of the loss was £25,840.
The policy defines  Purchase Price  as: 
The purchase price of Your  Vehicle  as confirmed in the net sales invoice which  includes 
delivery, factory fitted accessories and dealer fitted options but excludes any insurance 
premiums, new vehicle  registration fees, road fund licence fee, number plates, warranty  
costs, fuel, paintwork protection  applications,  other extras 
So, the Purchase  Price , as defined in the policy, isnt the same as the price Miss M paid 
for her car. Car Care  Plan was entitled  to deduct some  of the charges made  by the dealer  
when Miss M bought  the car, namely, the cost of the number plates, fuel, stargard, first 
registration fee, road fund licence fee and the administration  fee. Those deductions  
amounted to £893. 
In accordance with the terms of the policy, Car Care  Plan paid Miss M £2,856. That is the 
difference between  the Insured Value  of £25,840  and the Purchase Price of £28,696 
(£29,589 less £893). 
Im satisfied that Car Care Plan paid Miss M what was due to her under the terms of the 
policy. Theres nothing in the policy that means  that it should  pay Miss M for the finance 
payments shes made or pay her the difference between what she paid for the car and the 
amount outstanding to the finance  company. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls between Miss M and Car Care Plan. I dont  
think those calls prepared Miss M for the deductions  Car Care  Plan subsequently made  to 
the price Miss M paid for her car. But I dont  think that alters the outcome here. Thats  
because the terms  of the policy determine what Car Care Plan has to pay Miss M and the 
phone calls dont alter that.
Miss M has concerns about how the policy  was sold to her. As the investigator has 
explained, she should take the matter up with the business that sold her the policy, if she 
wishes to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN90276953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9027695