K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Creation Financial  Services Limited (Creation Finance) havent 
supported a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). 
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, it might be possible to recover the money paid through  a chargeback  scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Miss F needs to demonstrate there has been  a breach of contract and in this case  that would 
mean she needs to demonstrate that there  was a fault with the sofas when they were 
supplied.
Im not persuaded that sufficient evidence has been  provided that thats the case.  I say that 
because the expert inspector doesnt think the puddling is a defect.  His report  says that the 
puddling is due to incorrect dressing of the furniture  and hes suggested that the puddling 
disappears when the cushions are correctly  dressed. Having inspected  both sofas he is not 
of the opinion that there are any faults.
In those circumstances it would not be fair to say there is evidence that the sofas were of an 
unsatisfactory standard and, given  the time thats  elapsed since  purchase, I think its for 
Miss F to demonstrate that.
So, I dont think it would  be fair to ask Creation  Finance  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN99742492my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9974249