K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard wont  refund  a payment
made on her credit  card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for concert
tickets.
background
In October  2017, Mrs B bought four concert tickets on her Barclaycard credit  card.  In total,
she paid £687.55.
Mrs B says she didnt realise  she had bought  the tickets from a ticket reselling site - she said
she was redirected  to the Website from the venues website. Mrs B says she thought she
was buying four tickets for a total of £128.  However, after completing the purchase,  shed
seen she was charged a total of £687.55 and not £128, as she thought. Mrs B says she felt
rushed to purchase the tickets as there  were  messages alerting her that the tickets were
selling fast and she needed to act soon to secure them.
Mrs B told us she feels shes been  misled and that she didnt agree for the £687.55 to be
taken from her account.
Barclaycard looked  into Mrs Bs concerns,  but they didnt think  they could help. They said
they didnt feel they had grounds to raise  a chargeback claim because they didnt have
sufficient evidence to show Mrs B had been overcharged. However, they acknowledged
theyd initially told Mrs B that they had raised a chargeback against the Website. Which was
incorrect. So, they apologised  for this and credited  Mrs Bs account with £25. Barclaycard
also thought a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) should be
unsuccessful. They said they didnt think there had been a breach of contract  or
misrepresentation caused by the Website.
Unhappy with Barclaycards response, Mrs B brought  her complaint to our service.  Our
investigator looked into things for her. In summary, he didnt think Barclaycard had acted
unfairly by declining Mrs Bs request for a refund. He said Mrs B had entered  her card details
on the Website when  purchasing the tickets, therefore, shed authorised the transaction.  Our 
investigator also thought the final amount of the tickets was made  clear  to Mrs B and that the
Website had made  clear they were a ticket  reselling platform. So, he didnt think there had
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website. Overall, our investigator
didnt think Barclaycard needed  to do anything else.
Mrs B disagreed. She reiterated  that she hadnt seen the total price  of the tickets at any point
during the purchase process. Mrs B also says she contacted both Barclaycard  and the
Website within minutes of completing  the transaction. So, the complaint has been  passed to
me.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
This complaint is about Barclaycard, as Mrs Bs credit card account  provider. Its not about
the Website, which isnt a financial service  provider and so doesnt  fall within  my remit. Im
only considering  whether  Mrs B authorised Barclaycard to debit the account with the value of
the payment,  and whether  they should have  helped with the dispute with the Website  in any
other way.
Mrs B says she made the transaction for these tickets - she entered her card details on the
Ref: DRN91543232Website and agreed to enter into a transaction with them. Mrs B is disputing the amount she
paid for the tickets  as she says the total amount was never displayed during  the purchase
process. Mrs B also says she felt rushed by the Website to buy the tickets.
I appreciate Mrs Bs frustrations, but as Ive explained,  Mrs B authorised the transaction, so
it seems to me she wanted  to buy the tickets. Additionally, we have  got screenshot evidence
of the ticket buying process dating  back to 2017 - where the total  price is displayed on the
final page before the buyer  is asked  to enter their card details.
I also understand Mrs B says she wasnt aware  the Website  were a secondary  ticketing  site.
Having looked  at the Websites terms and conditions from around the time Mrs B bought the
tickets, I think  they make  clear the Website is a secondary ticket selling website. And I think
its clear the tickets are being purchased through the Website from a seller (who isnt
representing the Website).
Having considered everything  Mrs B has said (including that she made this purchase and
paid for the tickets) and the evidence provided  by Barclaycard, Im satisfied  the transaction
was properly authorised and correctly  applied to Mrs Bs credit card account  with
Barclaycard.
could Barclaycard challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mrs B does
here), the card issuer (Barclaycard)  can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for
a card issuer  to attempt  a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres  a reasonable
prospect of success,  for example where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that
the payment wasnt properly authorised  by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback
has been successful.  But I dont think Barclaycard could  have  challenged the payment on 
the basis Mrs B didnt properly authorise the transaction,  given the conclusions Ive already
set out.
Mrs B confirmed she did receive the tickets in time for the concert but chose not to go. I
appreciate Mrs Bs concerns, but Ive seen no evidence that there was a problem  with the
tickets Mrs B received.  So, I dont  think Barclaycard  could challenge the Website on the
basis that Mrs B didnt get what she ordered. Or that she wasnt able to use the tickets to
gain entry to the event.
Barclaycard credited Mrs Bs account with £25 as a way of saying sorry for telling her the
wrong information about raising a chargeback with the Website, when they hadnt.  Having
thought about this, I think this is fair compensation. I say this because Mrs B was under the
impression her claim was being pursued. And I can understand  it would have been
disappointing for Mrs B to find out it wasnt. In any case, as Ive explained, I dont  think this
incorrect information had a material impact on the outcome of the chargeback claim.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how Section
75 applies  to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mrs B has an equal right to claim
against Barclaycard  as she does against  the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  if certain conditions are met.
Ref: DRN91543233My role isnt to decide Barclaycards liability under Section 75. Instead,  as statute requires
me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account  any relevant law,
such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  For a valid claim under Section 75 there must  be a
debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place.  The Websites  terms and conditions  in this
case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Website's
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the
Buyers and Sellers."
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does
provide a service.  And for this they charge buyers  a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website
says they:
.. .charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Website's  name]  platform, guaranteeing
tickets and providing customer service.
In effect then, is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between  Mrs B, Barclaycard  and the
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee.
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time,
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 but less than £30,000. In this
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mrs B paid. But I can see from her credit
card statement that she was charged a total of £687.55. From our research,  weve found that
the Websites fee makes  up about a third of the total cost. One third of £687.55 is around
£229. So, I think its more  likely than not the Websites fee for their service in this case  was
more than £100 and less than £30,000.  This means  I think Mrs B could have  a valid claim
under Section 75.
So, Ive established  that the necessary  arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75
about the service  the Website provided, and that the cash  price of that service is sufficient
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need  to consider whether theres been a breach  of contract or
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
As Ive explained. Ive seen the steps someone  needed to follow to buy tickets on the
Website in 2017  - which I think is more likely than not, the same steps Mrs B followed when
she purchased the tickets.  Having looked  at this information, I can see the Website displays
the total price  of the tickets before Mrs B needed to enter in her card details. So, because
she entered her details  and authorised the transaction, the purchase was completed.  I
havent seen anything to suggest the Website misled Mrs B or that they told her anything
untrue about the price which materially persuaded her to buy the tickets  she otherwise
wouldnt have. Similarly, Mrs B says she received the tickets  but chose  not to go to the
concert, so Im not persuaded there  has been a breach of contract either.
Ref: DRN91543234Mrs B also says she was redirected to the Website via the venues website. And that she
didnt realise she was on a ticket reselling site. Instead, she thought  she was buying  tickets
from the primary ticket seller. However, as previously mentioned, I havent seen anything to
suggest the Website displayed information to say they were the primary ticket seller. From
the information Ive seen,  I think  the Website makes clear theyre  a secondary marketplace
for tickets. So, Im not persuaded there  was a breach of contract or misrepresentation here.
Having carefully thought  about everything. Im satisfied the Website  provided a service  (as
Ive described) and I am not persuaded they have breached  the contract. Nor have they
misrepresented that service to Mrs B to my mind. It follows that I currently  think Barclaycard
acted fairly  in the handling of Mrs Bs Section 75 claim.
was there  anything else within the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 that Barclaycard should have
considered?
Even though  Ive made the finding  that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary.  Section 56 has the effect of making the Website  the agent of Barclaycard
during the antecedent  negotiations leading  up to Mrs B entering into a transaction with
them. So essentially, this means Barclaycard are responsible  for the acts or omissions of the
Website and what was said or done  before the transaction was entered  in to and conducted
by the Website.  In other words,  Barclaycard  have  to stand behind  the things  the Website
said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
For a valid claim  under  Section 56, there  has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangement in place - which  is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However,  unlike 
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the
impact of Section  56 and whether  Barclaycard  ought  to have considered  this in Mrs Bs case
With this in mind. Ive thought about  whether the Website misrepresented the information or
the tickets Mrs B purchased. Mrs B has been consistent in telling us the Website never
displayed the total cost of the tickets  and she never  knew  the total amount was £687.55.
However, as Ive explained, from the information Ive seen Im satisfied the full price  of the
tickets were made clear  to Mrs B at the time of purchase. And Mrs B completed  the
transaction, therefore, agreeing to this price. So, I dont think the Website misrepresented
this information.
I also note Mrs B says she didnt know the Website was a ticket  resale site. Having looked
into the Website and their terms and conditions. Im not persuaded this information was
misrepresented to Mrs B. I say this because I think there are prominent  messages on the
Website which explain that theyre  a secondary ticketing marketplace.
I understand Mrs B feels strongly about whats  happened and I appreciate her frustration. In
summary. Im not persuaded  there  was breach or misrepresentation by the Website. The
Website have provided a service (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded they have
breached the contract in Mrs Bs case. Nor have they misrepresented  their service to Mrs B.
While I understand this will come  as a disappointment  to Mrs B, I dont  think  I can fairly
require Barclaycard to refund her for the tickets. I think Mrs B authorised Barclaycard to debit
her credit card account with the value of the transaction to the Website, so I think it was fair
for them to do that. I also dont think Barclaycard  acted unfairly in the handling of Mrs Bs
chargeback claim. On that note, Barclaycard did acknowledge  that they told Mrs B the wrong
Ref: DRN91543235information about the chargeback and paid her £25 compensation for the inconvenience
caused. And as Ive explained, I think this is fair compensation  in the circumstances. So, I
currently dont think I can ask Barclaycard to refund  Mrs B for the tickets or that they need to
do anything more.
Barclaycard responded to my provisional  decision and said they agreed with my findings. 
However, Mrs B didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said they disagree  with my provisional decision or made any further 
comments for me to consider. So, I find no grounds on which  to depart  from the conclusions  
I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154323