K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wont pay her home insurance 
claim for water damage to her property, and with the way the claim was dealt with.
background
On 18 March 2018 Mrs B returned to her home after a period away to discover leaking pipes 
had caused considerable  damage.  She turned off the water  and made  a claim to Admiral. 
She had the leak repaired. Admiral appointed loss adjusters who came out to carry out a site 
inspection some two weeks later. Some of the ceilings were tested for asbestos. After  review 
of the terms of her policy Admiral said it wouldnt be paying the claim. This was because  
Mrs B had been away from the property for 20 days before  the claim. The policy  allowed the 
property to be unoccupied for up to 45 days. But from November to March this period was 
reduced to 5 days unless  the property was heated to a constant temperature  of over12C or 
the water  supply turned off and the system drained  down.
Mrs B thought this was unfair as she hadnt had this drawn to her attention  when she bought  
the policy. The exclusion was listed  with a number of other  terms and in the policy booklet 
but she had to research the documents to find this. She complained  to Admiral  about this 
and also that it delayed in inspecting her property and left holes in the ceiling where  it had 
done the asbestos tests. Admiral apologised for the delay but still said it wouldnt be paying 
the claim.  it said Mrs B had had her policy since 2014 and should've  known about the cover.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the unoccupancy term was onerous and 
wasnt sufficiently drawn to Mrs Bs attention. She said that Admiral should deal with the 
claim, and pay interest on any cash settlement. She further said it should pay £500 
compensation. Mrs B produced some  invoices to us and said she was organising  repairs 
with contractors.
Admiral didnt agree and pointed out that the unoccupancy term was in several  of the policy  
documents. It didnt  think it reasonable to be expected to highlight every clause or possible  
claim scenario.
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the investigators view concerning the 
exclusion, but rather than asking Admiral  to "deal with" the claim I said it should reconsider 
it. This would allow Mrs B to make  further complaints if she isnt satisfied with any proposed  
settlement.
Mrs B advised she didnt have any further  points to make.
Admiral didnt accept  my decision. It feels all relevant information was given  to Mrs B. It sent 
through a copy  Key facts document which it said was sent to Mrs B on renewal of the 
policy and is available  online. It had a page  headed  Significant or unusual exclusions or 
limitations.
I pointed out to Admiral  that this document hadnt  been disclosed to us before nor had it 
been mentioned  in Admirals final response  to Mrs B, or in Admirals responses  to us.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
Ref: DRN96993852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
unoccupancy term
The claim has been declined because Mrs B was in breach of an unoccupancy term in the 
policy. This restricted the normal 45 days the property was allowed to be unoccupied  to just 
5 days from November to March unless the heating was kept at a constant  temperature or 
the water  turned off and the system  drained  down. Mrs B had been away for 20 days  and the 
damage was thought  to have been  caused by frozen pipes.
Most home insurance policies allow the policyholder to be away for a period of between  30 
and 60 days. Here the period is 45 days and I would consider that to be reasonable. But to 
restrict that period  to 5 days as Ive described would be regarded  as unusual  and the 
requirements on the policyholder here to be onerous. Because of that I would expect  such a 
term to be highlighted  to the policyholder on the purchase of the policy.  Here the term is in 
the policy document and it is in the product  information document. But as its in a list of other  
terms like limits and excesses  I dont think that this was sufficiently  highlighted to Mrs B on 
sale or renewal of the policy. So I think Admiral was wrong to decline the claim for 
unoccupancy.
To be clear, I wouldnt expect every policy scenario to be highlighted, only where the policy  
term is unusual or it is onerous for the consumer to be able to comply with the policy term.
the claim
I understand Mrs Bs point  about the delay in the loss adjusters coming out and I agree  that 
fourteen days is too long in a major damage  case like this. I can also understand that it 
would have been annoying for the asbestos tests to be done  and the ceilings just left.
I think as asbestos  testing would have had to be done any way it was reasonable to do the 
test straight  away. I understand that Mrs B was left with holes in the ceiling but these would 
have been dealt with as part of the repairs (whether or not Admiral decided  to cover the 
damage). And I dont  see the need  to separate out the damage incurred in the first fourteen 
days from the rest of the damage, as it will fall to be repaired/renewed with the rest of the 
claim. 
I think Admiral  should now reconsider the claim, both for buildings  and contents, without 
applying the unoccupancy  exclusion.  This means  that it will review the damage and consider 
the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. As it hasnt assessed 
the damage I think thats reasonable. And from Mrs Bs point of view she will be able to 
consider any offers  made  with the option, if she disagrees with any proposed  settlement,  of 
making a further  complaint about it so that the terms of any settlement can be reviewed,
Mrs B has confirmed  she is having her own contractors repair  the damage so, if Admiral now 
accepts the claim it will have  to pay a cash settlement. It will have to assess the work  done 
(or to be done) and pay what it determines to be a reasonable  settlement. Also, if it now 
Ref: DRN96993853accepts the claim, Admiral should  pay interest  at 8% per year on any costs Mrs B has 
reasonably incurred from the date of her payment until it pays.
compensation
There was an initial delay  in coming out to inspect the damage. Mrs B says she was told not 
to remove any damaged things and this would have caused her some inconvenience. I also 
think that Admiral shouldnt have applied the unoccupancy clause when our position  is clear 
about the need to highlight such terms.
Mrs B will have had extra  stress and inconvenience  in dealing with her damaged  property 
which she would normally have had help with from her insurer.  Taking all those matters into 
account I do think that the proposed  compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience  is 
reasonable.
As Ive said,  Admiral has in response  to my provisional findings now shown us a document.  
This is headed About our insurance  services  and key facts. On the third page is a list of 
Significant or unusual  exclusions  or limitations. And the term relating to unoccupancy is at 
the top of the list. If that page had been  highlighted or drawn attention  to in the policy  
documents or the renewal  letter  it may well have been enough to draw  Mrs Bs attention  to it.
The problem I have  is, as Ive pointed out this wasnt mentioned in Admirals final response 
letter to Mrs B. Nor was it disclosed  to us before, even though our investigator wrote  to 
Admiral specifically asking for the documents sent to Mrs B at renewal, including  any key 
facts document.  Nor did Admiral mention it to us in response to our investigators view.  Im 
not persuaded that this document  was sent to Mrs B. It may well be available online, but 
none of the other policy documents draw attention to it, particularly the list on the third page.
So Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which are now final and form part of 
this final decision.  Admiral must reconsider the claim. If she accepts my decision, Mrs B 
should contact  Admiral with her evidence of her expenditure.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
reconsider Mrs Bs claim for water damage, without applying the unoccupancy 
exclusion, subject  to the remaining  terms and conditions  of the policy.
if it accepts  the clam, pay interest*  at 8% per year on any of the reasonable costs 
(subject to satisfactory proof) Mrs B has paid so far, from the date she paid those 
costs until the date it repays her.
pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Ref: DRN96993854Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Admiral Insurance Company Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs  to deduct 
tax from any interest paid. Should  Mrs B request it, Admiral should provide her with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim 
it.
Ref: DRN9699385