K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  because  he says Reassured  (Health) Ltd mis-sold a private  medical 
insurance policy to him. 
background
In 2015 Mr M took out a private  medical  policy with an insurer who Ill refer to as A. 
Reassured (Health) Ltd acted as a broker and advised him to take out the policy. They 
completed an assessment  of his demands and needs and provided him with a quote. Mr M 
asked about the financial status  of the insurers underwriter at the point of sale and 
Reassured sent him information about  this. 
Mr M went ahead  and took out the policy with A. Around three  years  later A withdrew from 
the Private Medical Insurance market. Mr M is unhappy because he says Reassure didnt 
make it clear  what would  happen if such a scenario  occurred. He thinks this should have 
been highlighted as a significant term during the sales  process. He says this has now left 
him in a position  where he now a pre-existing medical condition  and this has significantly 
increased the cost of insurance with his new provider. Hes also explained the advisor was 
pushy and queried whether he was on commission. 
Reassured confirmed  their advisors dont receive commission  on a case  by case basis. They 
didnt agree the advisor had been  pushy and explained they couldnt have foreseen A 
withdrawing from the market at the point of sale. Reassured said Mr M had been  given  the 
policy documents which explained  the terms and conditions. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She was satisfied Reassured had acted in 
line with the relevant rules and industry  guidelines.  She noted it wouldnt have been  possible 
for Reassured to foresee  A withdrawing  from the market and they couldnt have covered off 
every eventuality. So she didnt think Reassured  needed to do anything  to put things right.  
Mr M didnt  agree. He says the potential for withdrawal of cover is a key term which  ought  to 
have been highlighted to him. So I need  to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reassured advised Mr M to take the policy out. So, the relevant rules  and industry  
guidelines say Reassured had a responsibility to ensure  the policy was right for Mr M and he 
was given clear, fair and non-misleading  information about it. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I say that because: 
Everyone agrees  it wasnt possible for Reassured to foresee A would withdraw from 
the market. Thats  a commercial decision A was entitled to take and I dont think  its 
reasonable to say Reassured should have been  aware of this at the point of sale 
Ref: DRN97137792The emails between  Mr M and the advisor indicate that there was a period of several 
days between Mr M being  provided with the quote and Mr M taking  out the policy. 
Mr M responded to ask about the financial stability of the underwriter and Reassured 
provided him with information about  it. The advisor  asked if that answered Mr Ms 
question and he responded to confirm he wanted  to go ahead  with the policy.  
Reassured has also confirmed their advisors dont receive commission  for individual  
sales. And I note during  the sales call Mr M said hed read the policy  and the advisor 
also offered him an opportunity to ask questions. So Im not persuaded the sales  
advisor was pushy in the way Mr M has described
Reassured also sent Mr M policy documentation and information. It included a 
Frequently Asked Questions section and information about  the cooling off period. So 
there were further opportunities for him to ask questions or cancel the policy if hed 
felt under any undue  pressure  to go ahead with the policy
I dont think its reasonable to say Reassured  should have  highlighted to Mr M that if 
A withdrew from the market his claims wouldnt be paid out. I dont  think  this was 
something that ought to have been  highlighted to Mr M as a significant term at the 
point of sale in the circumstances of this case. As Ive outlined above I dont think this 
was something Reassured couldve foreseen at that point in time. And it seems 
unlikely to me they couldve given Mr M definitive assurances on that point as it 
would depend  on a wide range of factors, for example the circumstances in which A 
withdrew from the market
Ive already mentioned Mr M did ask about  the financial  stability  of the underwriter. 
So I think it was open to him to have asked Reassured for further advice  if this was 
particularly important  to him and he felt this hadnt been adequately reflected in the 
discussion about his demands and needs. And, he also received information about 
the policy which explained what to do if he had any further questions
Whilst I empathise with Mr Ms position,  and can appreciate his frustration, I dont  
think Reassured mis-sold the policy to him. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9713779