K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to instruct  its valuer  to visually inspect 
for Japanese Knotweed (knotweed) within the vicinity of his property when it was obtaining 
a mortgage valuation report. He will now incur costs  to eradicate the knotweed  from his 
property and as a result of disclosing  it to other  parties.
background
Mr G bought his end of terrace  property as a first time buyer with a mortgage,  following a 
valuation HSBC instructed in June 2013.  (This was a property valuation rather than a 
building survey or homebuyers report.) The valuation identified some  issues with timber and 
damp, which didnt  affect HSBCs willingness to lend to Mr G and were  rectified  when he 
moved into the property.
The vendor  had completed an information  form on which they ticked  to state the property 
was not affected  by knotweed. However in May 2017 a neighbour informed him there 
appeared to be knotweed  within the boundary of their own property, and within seven metres 
of the rear boundary of his property.  This emanated from a stream bordering  a separate  
patch of land Mr G owned behind the driveway at the rear of his house on which  a garage 
used to be located. The neighbour was also unaware of the knotweed prior to that point.
On going back  through  photographs taken when  he was viewing the property before 
purchase, Mr G noticed hed taken a photograph where the old garage was located,  prior to 
it being demolished. The specialist firm hed engaged to treat the knotweed confirmed that 
there was mature growth protruding from the stream plainly visible  in that photograph.  
Mr G complained both to HSBC and the firm of surveyors it instructed to provide its 
valuation. The firm of surveyors said:
Their contractual  arrangement to provide the valuation was directly  with HSBC, and 
they adhered  to the Royal Institute of Chartered  Surveyors (RICS) Valuation - 
Professional Standards, Red Book.
HBSCs valuation guidance  notes  didnt require them to report  the specific risk 
categories for knotweed (some  of which were where the knotweed was outside the 
property boundaries).  But should  the presence of knotweed  have been identified  
within the curtilage  of the property then I am confident the valuer  would have 
reported this.
It was relevant that the knotweed specialist  only identified it as category 2 (within 7m 
of Mr Gs property  boundary)  in 2017. Due to the invasive nature,  had it been  visible  
at the time of the valuation it would  have become apparent prior to May 2017.
The valuer likely considered there were no visible signs  of knotweed in 2013, and 
therefore there would  be no requirement for this to be reported  particularly as they 
were undertaking a valuation and not a survey.
Whilst suggesting that the knotweed was in category  1 in 2013, Mr Gs photograph 
would not be considered conclusive evidence  that the valuer  had been  professionally 
negligent when  assessing the property for mortgage lending purposes. 
It appeared that the garage  was not included  within the valuation  advice provided, as 
it was dilapidated  and outside the garden  walls. The valuer wasnt expected to know  
the extent of individual property boundaries as part of this type of inspection.
Mr G also took the dispute with the firm of surveyors to Ombudsman Services (OS):  Property 
(a separate  organisation to our service),  which found as follows:
Ref: DRN94608252-The property valuation  was conducted for the benefit of the lender, although there is 
a duty of care to the purchaser.
-It agreed knotweed was visible in Mr Gs photograph from June 2013. But in HSBCs 
valuation report the valuer indicated that there was no garage at the property, 
confirming this was not inspected at the time. He also wouldnt have needed to view 
the stream behind the garage.
-No matter what type of inspection they are completing, a surveyor  should have been 
aware of RICS guidance on knotweed published in March  20121. However this said 
that for categories  1 and 2, the decision as to whether  further investigations are 
needed will be based on a combination  of the practitioners professional judgment 
and the client  [HSBC]s particular requirements.
-HSBCs policy2 at the time was that Where Japanese Knotweed has been  identified 
within the boundaries of the property  or on neighbouring land within 7 metres  of the 
boundary but is more  than 7 metres from the habitable space being used as security, 
we can only proceed if any damage  to outbuildings, paths and fences is minor.
-So even  if the valuer had inspected  and seen the knotweed protruding  from the 
stream, there were no signs of such damage. So when  considering HSBCs 
requirements there would have  been no reason to report  it.
 
HSBC agreed the valuer had a duty of care to report any cause for concern including 
knotweed, if it is visible  upon inspection of the property. However in this case the valuer  
didnt note any visible signs  of knotweed within the limits of a mortgage valuation , and 
wasnt aware of any problem in the local area.  It also agreed with the firm of surveyors  that 
due to the invasive nature of knotweed  the scale of the problem would have become 
apparent prior to May 2017, had it been  present  in 2013.
HSBC confirmed that it didnt require its valuer  to refer to specific RICS risk categories.  But 
the valuer would  have  been aware how knotweed is categorised and would take that into 
account if they decided it was necessary to report on knotweed  in the valuation.
Mr G referred  his complaint to our service as he was concerned that HSBCs  valuations 
were provided on a form HSBC had designed,  which evidently hadnt  been updated since  
2010  and didnt specifically ask a question about  knotweed at all. He agreed he might have 
had more grounds for complaint against the firm of surveyors had he chosen a building 
survey or homebuyers report.  But he said he chose  a valuation as he couldnt  see any 
structural deformity and had no concerns such as subsidence, major cracks in the walls or 
bowing to the roof or end terrace  wall. 
In any event, Mr G says that the RICS  guidance from 2012 was primarily directed at property 
valuations and not building surveys, and it cross-refers to the RICS  Red Book which  states:
in normal  circumstances, as much of the exterior of the property and the land within the 
ownership as is readily accessible  without undue  difficulty, or risk to personal safety, should 
be inspected visually.
Although personal  judgment has to be used, this inspection should include all of the 
property that is visible  when standing at ground level within  the boundaries of the site, and 
adjacent public/communal  areas,  and when  standing at the various floor levels.
1 RICS Professional  Information, Japanese Knotweed and residential  property, 1st ed, March  2012
2 Still recorded at: https://www.cml.org.uk/lenders-handbook/englandandwales/question-list/1818/ 
Ref: DRN94608253It mentions that local water sources  are a risk factor for knotweed,  and Where there are 
locational factors that may impact  value they should be recorded and reported.
Mr G provided  a number of videos he has made to this service, which show  how easy  it 
would have been, in his view, for the valuer to walk down the driveway to the side and rear 
of his property  and view the knotweed emanating from the stream  near his (then)  garage. He 
considers the absence  of development in that location would have drawn  the valuers 
attention to the presence of the stream.
He wanted this service  to find out whether HSBC specifically instructed its valuer to look for 
knotweed, and in particular RICS categories 1-2, as he found its explanations to him were 
ambiguous. He considered this was instrumental  in him being able to move forward with a 
dispute either with HSBC  or the firm of surveyors. He wasnt  happy that the key piece of 
evidence (HSBCs guidance notes to valuers) was considered commercially sensitive.
HSBC told us that its 2012 guidance to valuers instructed them to check  for knotweed.  Its 
allowed us to share an extract of the relevant part to Mr G under a heading  of specialist 
reports  enter Y/N:
i.Choose  Mining / Timber and damp / Wall tie / Structural engineer / 
Aboriculturalist / Japanese  Knotweed / Other
ii.Details / other  enter details of required report, including specific  requirements for 
inspection. Please note that HSBC expects Specialist  Reports to only be requested  
where a specific and necessary need  has been identified. NB: Progressive defects, 
including Japanese Knotweed  infestation, require remedial  works to be completed  
and signed off as satisfactory under insurance-backed guarantee or professional 
indemnity prior to release of funds.
This appears  to be a reference to the options  available for selection on the HSBC  valuation 
form itself. HSBC added that the disclaimer for borrowers at the foot of the valuation also set 
out that it wasnt a survey,  and was not to be relied  upon to identify any defects.
HSBC says there was no evidence  of knotweed within the required radius at the time of the 
survey. It has told Mr G, HSBCs policy is limited  to 7 metres from the boundary of the 
property. Ultimately, however, we will rely on a valuers expertise and should  they indicate  a 
concern about  Knotweed in excess of the 7 metre  radius, we will be guided by their 
comments.
HSBC is referring to RICS category 2, being  where the knotweed is within a 7m radius of the 
boundaries of the property  as the roots of this plant  are known to extend for such a 
distance. (Categories 3 and 4, on the other  hand, are where the knotweed is above  ground 
within the boundaries of the property.) 
Our investigator considered what both parties had said and didnt think  Mr Gs complaint  
should succeed. She concluded HSBC had acted  responsibly by seeking a registered  
professional to carry out the valuation on his home,  and relied on the information  the valuer 
provided in good faith. The valuation was carried out for HSBCs  benefit, to determine 
whether the property was suitable  security  for the amount he was looking to borrow.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  view.  In particular, he was concerned  that the form 
HSBC provided for the valuer to complete was still at Rev 2010 V1.0 in 2013, and there 
wasnt a separate  Y/N box for knotweed on the form as suggested in the guidance notes 
HSBC said it gave  to valuers.
Ref: DRN94608254The investigator asked  HSBC to respond  to this point. It confirmed that V1.0 was the 
current version of the valuation form at that time and this did not have  a Y/N tick box for 
knotweed. It confirmed that the oldest version  of the valuers guidance notes it could find 
were dated  from 15 July 2011.  And it believed valuers understood they were  to enter the 
requirement for knotweed  reports  under the Other Y/N box, and to include the details in the 
narrative below. This wasnt changed  until July 2015  when additional information was added 
about the banks position on requiring a treatment schedule in place for knotweed.
Mr G remained  dissatisfied. He still wanted  to know how HSBC could demonstrate that it 
actually provided  the guidance notes to the firm of surveyors. As agreement  couldnt be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided  extensive submissions, including informative video evidence, to support 
his complaint  which were helpful and Ive considered in their entirety.  But as I think  Mr G 
understands from his correspondence with our adjudicator, I cant  consider  the actions of the 
firm of surveyors in this complaint. Mr G has already complained  separately to that firm, and 
if Mr G isnt satisfied  with its response  or OS: Propertys findings, he may still have the right 
to take legal action. I note theyve also suggested there are other avenues he can pursue to 
identify the owner  of the stream who would  have a responsibility to control the knotweed.
Whats clear in this case is that the firm of surveyors engaged by HSBC  didnt notice the 
knotweed at the time of valuing Mr Gs property  or at least didnt consider it noteworthy  to 
mention on the valuation  report. What Im being asked to consider is whether an act or 
omission by HSBC caused  that to happen.  So the issues  I need  to focus on here are the 
mortgage valuation  form itself, HSBCs guidance notes, and also what HSBC, as the lender, 
would reasonably have expected a firm of chartered  surveyors to have  done  in response to 
these documents.
HSBC guidance  notes
HSBC has previously referred to an earlier version  of its guidance notes in use in July 2011  
which it says includes the extract referring to knotweed weve  shared with Mr G. I couldnt  
verify the date of this document from the extract  HSBC  provided, but Ive seen an entire 
guidance document which includes an introduction referring to the HSBC valuation form 
introduced in October 2010, revised  March 2012 . HSBC says that this was the guidance in 
use at the time of Mr Gs valuation in June 2013.  
Im satisfied from this evidence that the guidance  was updated in March  2012, and as this 
coincides with the RICS  report on knotweed that same month, that is one of the likely 
reasons for updating the guidance.
HSBC says that it would have  issued  the revised  guidance to the then Technical Manager  at 
the firm of surveyors. Whilst its no longer  able to produce an email demonstrating this, I 
have to bear in mind  that it was nearly  eight years  ago. I accept  HSBCs  evidence largely 
because there would be little point to my mind in updating the guidance if it was not then 
passed on to the firm of surveyors  for onward circulation.
Ref: DRN94608255valuers qualifications and experience
HSBC also says, and I accept, that under  the terms of its contract with the firm of surveyors, 
only valuers with RICS credentials were to be used. That bound them to follow the RICS 
Red Book which does,  in any event, highlight the issues with knotweed  that surveyors  are to 
consider.
the valuation form
As Mr G correctly  notes, there is no Y/N  box for knotweed  on this form. I agree the 
valuation guidance  does read as if there  was perhaps intended to be, however in my view 
this is an oversight that doesnt affect  the utility of the form. HSBC believes the valuer would 
have used the Other  Y/N tick box. Whether  this was clear  to valuers or not, they could also 
reasonably have ticked the Arboriculturalist  box to achieve the same outcome.
Whilst the form still bears its original revision number (1.0), the guidance indicates it was 
actually updated  in 2012. There isnt a specific change relating  to knotweed on the form itself 
but, as I mention above, the guidance notes at that time do refer to knotweed. If there were 
other changes on the form I agree with Mr G that it would have been good practice to update 
the version number.  But this doesnt  make a material difference in my view either  to the 
surveyors professional  understanding  of knotweed or of HSBCs requirements, given the 
guidance it issued.
Whilst it was a matter of the valuers opinion whether  knotweed  was to be commented on in 
the valuation,  given the reference to knotweed in both the guidance notes  and the RICS Red 
Book, I dont  consider  any shortcoming  in the presentation of the form materially contributed 
to why observations  werent made  about the knotweed in Mr Gs case.
the type of survey
I understand why Mr G feels the focus of the RICS 2012 report is on valuations  not surveys.  
But he hasnt quoted the report fully. It also says on another page, with my emphasis:  
In most cases this visual inspection of the grounds  of a property is relatively cursory and 
takes place naturally during the normal inspection process. However, in circumstances 
where there  may be a greater risk of Japanese  Knotweed, for example, where it is 
widespread locally,  this part of the inspection may require particular attention.
If the client  wants greater assurance, he or she should commission  a HomeBuyer Report 
or a building survey. Although these are not specialist Japanese Knotweed  services,  the 
inspection of the property and its grounds  will be more comprehensive than with a mortgage 
valuation inspection and there will thus be a greater  opportunity to identify any growth. In 
these cases , inspection  along and over the boundaries  is important  especially where those 
features listed in 5.2.2  are present.
Mr G says that he didnt commission a full survey  or homebuyers report  because he visually 
inspected the property and was satisfied  with it. But Mr G isnt a surveyor and that is the 
purpose of these reports. I accept Mr G may have been willing to bear the risk that his 
judgement on the state of the building was wrong, whilst still being  unaware he was missing 
out on a fuller opportunity to identify knotweed   something he likely hadnt  considered  at all. 
Thats unfortunate, but unfortunately not something I can blame  on HSBC.
why knotweed wasnt mentioned 
Ref: DRN94608256Plausible reasons  appear to have been given by OS: Property as to why the valuer didnt 
make mention of knotweed on the report  even  if (as accepted by a subsequent contractor 
and OS: Property) it appears to be visible in Mr Gs photo. I shall not go into this in detail 
given that this was for the valuers professional judgement. But Ive quoted HSBCs lending 
policy on knotweed above  and the presence of knotweed in say categories  1 or 2 wasnt in 
itself any guarantee  that this would then be mentioned in a valuation report.
I note Mr G makes  a point of saying that hes not relying on the fact that the valuer should 
have checked  the garage.  So I assume  he accepts HSBCs point that the presence  of a 
dilapidated garage outside the propertys boundary wall  which it might not have been clear 
even belonged to the property  would not have been a key part of the valuation. I agree that 
a surveyor wouldnt be expected to review detailed  land registry plans. And the boundary  
walls of the property  could just as easily have  been  inspected from the inside as outside.
Instead, Mr G focuses  on the presence of the stream as a local feature. Whilst this was a 
matter for the valuers and not HSBCs  judgement, I dont see that Mr Gs argument here is a 
strong one. There doesnt appear  to have been any wider knowledge of knotweed  in the 
local area  its evident the vendor and neighbours werent aware of this either.  And without 
needing to check  the garage, particularly as this was also a valuation and not a full survey,  I 
dont consider it surprising that the valuer wasnt viewing the area where knotweed has 
subsequently been identified in Mr Gs photo. The presence of a stream was also something 
that would  routinely come up in a solicitors  local searches.
Had Mr G requested a full survey, there seems to have been  a greater likelihood that the 
knotweed would have  been identified. And if it wasnt, the greater duty of care to Mr G 
conferred by a full survey  would then likely have given him fuller recourse against the 
surveyor given the problems he now faces. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but I havent  found grounds to conclude  that the position  hes in 
is a result of any material failure by HSBC in the instructions it gave the firm of surveyors.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460825