K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr S took out his original mortgage with Santander in 1998  and did not buy PPI at that time. 
He bought the PPI in 2000  at the same  time as taking  out a further  advance  on his 
mortgage. He applied for the additional borrowing and PPI policy over the phone.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £106 a month towards Mr Ss mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £5.76 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a timbermans assistant. He hasnt told us if he was 
entitled to any employee benefits such as sick pay. He has said that he didnt have any other 
means, such as savings, of repaying his mortgage  should he be unable to work.  Mr S has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
Santander has sent us information  to show that the mortgage account  closed  in July 2003.
 
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr S and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN90500012Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. However, it should be noted  that the PPI was a standalone policy and as such, 
Mr S was able to keep  it running to protect  the mortgage he subsequently had with a 
different lender after he redeemed the Santander mortgage in 2003.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN90500013The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ss case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
Ref: DRN90500014including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
From what  we know of Santanders  phone sales at the time,  it would  have been  made  clear  
that the policy was optional.  I havent seen any evidence that something different happened 
in this case. The additional loan offer letter talks about If you have requested  Loan  
Protection which indicates that an loan applicant was given a choice about having  PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it did provide advice during this sale. This means Santander had to advise  
Mr S with reasonable  care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or 
suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S. It seems Mr S cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Mr Ss financial circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr S would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered  whether  Mr S had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr S given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ss ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr S was not working 
Ref: DRN90500015for an extended period of time  even allowing for any sick pay benefits he may have  
been entitled to. And Mr S didnt have  any savings he could fall back on. So the 
policy would have helped  Mr S manage any consequences if he was unable  to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ss employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr S be disabled  or unemployed 
for 4 weeks before  could make a claim and the fact the policy would only pay benefits 
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim), the policy  still provided  valuable cover 
given:
Mr Ss circumstances, including any employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 4 
week qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which mean  the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to his home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr S be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr S was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr S would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr S agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr S all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN90500016In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr S? To what extent  did Mr S 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr S, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr S would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr S says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN90500017The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ss circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it is unclear whether Santander  told him the exact premium at the point Mr S 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mr S would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and he paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the phone call in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr S would get back  in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ss expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his  
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought h had bought and what 
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr S had 
received treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, or any other  employment  which his experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr S was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr S would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr S didnt  have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out. And indeed, Mr S was able to make  successful 
claims for unemployment in 2002  and 2005.
Ref: DRN90500018The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any other employment which in the insurers view he might reasonably become qualified  
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr S was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr S that any claim he made  would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr S be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve any sick pay Mr S may have  had for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr S was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr S 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
Ref: DRN90500019found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr S, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9050001