K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  have handled his contents  
insurance claim unfairly.
background
Mr E holds a home insurance policy with Lloyds, which  includes contents  cover.  He made  a 
claim on 20 July 2018  following  the theft of his coin collection  a few days  prior, which 
consisted of coins  he had purchased from the Channel Islands in June  2018.  
Lloyds accepted Mr Es claim, but declined  to consider his coin collection under the 
valuables head of cover  given that the coins were  still in circulation and considered  legal 
tender in the Channel Islands. As a result, Lloyds assessed his claim under the money 
section of the policy, which indemnifies  the policyholder up to a maximum of £500.
Mr E was unhappy with this as he bought the coins for over £700 and said that their true 
value was actually  in excess of £2000 as theyre considered collectibles. So he argued that 
his claim should be settled as such. Mr E was also unhappy with the time it took Lloyds to 
consider his claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint as she wasnt persuaded that the coins  ought 
to be considered as valuables  rather than money.  The investigator also didnt think  that the 
time in which  it took Lloyds to process the claim was unreasonable. Mr E disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mr Es home insurance policy covers  him against loss, damage  and theft of his contents, 
including his money and valuables. So Ive considered whether Lloyds has acted fairly by 
assessing his claim  under  the money section of his policy  rather than valuables,  which has 
a higher indemnity limit. 
In terms of money, the policy  sets out:
17. Money in the home
We will pay for the theft or accidental loss of money in your home  belonging to you or 
your family or for which you or your family are responsible.
The most we will pay for any one event is £500.
Money is defined by the policy as cash, currency notes, bank notes, money  orders, bankers 
drafts and current postage stamps, cheques,  savings and trading stamps amongst other 
things. 
In terms of cover for valuables, the policy does state  that this includes coin collections, and 
Mr E submits that his collection  ought  to be considered as such. But he has only been able 
Ref: DRN99299042to provide receipts that show he purchased his coins in June 2018 for £770, which was their 
monetary value.
Lloyds appointed a specialist to consider  the value of the coins,  but they were  unable to 
provide a valuation given  that the coins  were  still in circulation. Mr E also hasnt provided any 
professional valuation to demonstrate that his coins are worth more  than the monetary value 
for which he purchased  them. And given that the coins are still legal tender in the Channel  
Islands, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly  by categorising them  as money  under the 
policy as opposed  to valuables, as theyre  still considered to be cash.  So I wont be asking 
them to pay anything further than theyve offered already.
Mr E says he is also unhappy with the time it took Lloyds to process his claim,  as he says it 
took them around four months to reach  a decision.  But I can see that the delays were  
primarily caused by the police  investigation, which was still ongoing when the claim was 
made and took time to conclude,  as well as Lloyds having to waiting for the valuation 
company to report back to them. I appreciate it took longer for Mr E to receive a decision 
than can often be expected, but I dont think there was much more Lloyds could have done 
in the circumstances of this claim.  So I wont be asking them to compensate Mr E for this 
delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9929904