K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK plc wont refund a large number of payments made 
to online  gambling  businesses. She says she neither made  them herself not authorised 
anyone else to make them.    
background
Miss S is disputing around  400 payments made  to three gambling  businesses between June 
2017 and March 2018. She calculates that they total around £110,000. She raised the 
payments with Barclays in a series of enquiries.  Whilst the bank dealt with them  as and 
when Miss S got in touch, this service has considered them  as a single complaint. 
Having investigated  what happened,  Barclays  wasnt ultimately  persuaded that Miss S had 
been defrauded. On balance, it thought it more likely that she had in fact carried  out the 
transactions herself. It had initially refunded a series of payments amounting to just over 
£8,000, but after further investigation reversed that decision. And the bank also paid Miss S 
£100 in recognition of its delay in looking into one series of payments. It took the decision to 
close Miss Ss accounts.
Miss S didnt think shed  been treated fairly  and referred her complaint to this service. One of 
our adjudicators considered it and sent Miss S his preliminary assessment. He thought,  on 
balance, that Miss S had made the transactions herself and so didnt recommend that 
Barclays refund them.  Miss S didnt accept his view,  however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusion as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
As the adjudicator identified, the payments that Miss S is disputing  were made using her 
card details, but not necessarily the physical  card itself. It is, he noted,  quite possible  for 
people other  than the cardholder to obtain and use information from it (including  the card 
number, expiry date and CVV number) without ever being in possession of the card. So, in 
order to establish  whether  the payments had been made by someone else (using Miss Ss 
card details) he rightly considered the wider background. 
The adjudicator identified that Miss S hadnt  always been consistent  in what shed said about 
what had happened. She told the adjudicator, for example, that she had only ever used a 
gambling website  once  a site that doesnt feature in this complaint. But she told the bank 
that she had used one of the sites that is part of this complaint.  There  were similar 
inconsistencies in what she told Barclays. 
Miss S uses internet banking. The IP address  that Miss S generally uses  to access  her 
Barclays accounts matches that used to access at least one of the gambling sites. Whilst 
thats not conclusive evidence (its possible to hide or disguise an IP address), its a further 
piece of evidence  that links Miss S to the gambling transactions.  
Many of the gambling  transactions were made at around the same  time that money  was 
transferred from Miss Ss savings account to her current  account.  In my view that, in itself, 
may be an indication  that she was expecting payments to be made  from her current account. 
Ref: DRN90412482But its also the case that such transfers  could  only be made by someone  who was able to 
use online  banking to access Miss Ss accounts. That needed  the use of the banks 
PINsentry system, which in turn required the genuine card to be used in a card reader with 
the correct PIN. Theres no rational explanation of how someone  else could have had 
possession of Miss Ss card and knowledge of her PIN, still less how they could have used 
the card without her knowledge. 
Miss S checked her account fairly regularly. It would be surprising then if she didnt notice  
the payments  being made over such a long period of time.  I note too that significant sums 
were credited to Miss Ss account from one of the gambling businesses.  There would be no 
reason for that to happen  unless she had an account with that business,  and I note that she 
hasnt suggested  that money was paid to her in error. 
Barclays and the adjudicator also obtained information from the gambling businesses.  All 
three confirmed that Miss S held accounts  with them,  identified  by name, date of birth and 
email address  all of which matched the banks records. One said that Miss S had self-
excluded (meaning she couldnt  use the account) for five years from January  2018. 
In my view, theres a wealth of evidence to show that Miss S made the payments that shes  
now disputing. It follows that it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays  to refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Miss Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9041248