K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MoneyGram  International Limited gave his money  transfer to a third 
party.  He would like this to be refunded.
background
Mr T says he arranged  to transfer some  money to his wife via a MoneyGram  transfer. He 
says he provided her with the correct reference number to collect the funds  but when she 
wasnt able to collect on the original date, he phoned MoneyGram  and was told that this 
would not be a problem.
When he called back a second time,  he was told that the money had already been 
withdrawn  on the same day that he had set up the payment.
Mr T complained to MoneyGram.  He said the money had been  given  to someone other than 
his wife and wanted to know how this was possible.  
MoneyGram said that the person who had collected  the money had provided the unique 
reference code  which was required for collection.   This was the reference given to Mr T 
when he had set up the payment  so it said it had done nothing  wrong  and rejected Mr Ts 
complaint.
And when  Mr T came to our service, our adjudicator  did not think  she could  ask MoneyGram 
to do anymore either.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr T says that the money was handed  to someone who was not the intended  
recipient and he queries the identification provided  for the transaction.  He is right to do so 
as MoneyGrams terms and conditions state that in order  to collect a transfer, the recipient  
needs to have provided identification  as well as the unique reference code.
This service has asked MoneyGram  about the identification provided  but whilst  MoneyGram  
has no copy of the document shown on the day, it has shown us a record  of the information 
taken from that document.
This record shows the identification document  to be in the name of Mr Ts wife, with an 
address in the city which she was living in at the time.
There is also a reference number taken from the document   although nothing which 
suggests what the document is.
Mr T has provided  his wifes proof  of identification  and I can say that the date and place  of 
birth differs from that which MoneyGram has recorded.
Ref: DRN93868852However, the unique  reference number was quoted  and I remind myself that this was 
given to Mr T approximately six hours  before the withdrawal.
So, I have gone  on to consider whether MoneyGram  has done anything  wrong  by handing  
over the funds to someone other than Mr Ts wife in these particular circumstances  and I 
dont think that it has.
Faced with the unique  code and identification to confirm  that they were the intended 
recipient, I think MoneyGram  has acted  reasonably  and I wont be asking that it refunds this 
money to Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386885