K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly gave him a loan which he 
couldnt afford to pay back. 
background 
Mr M took out an instalment loan with Uncle Buck on 21 December 2018.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. Mr M says he cant  now repay  the loan and there is a balance outstanding.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said that information  in the credit search done 
by Uncle  Buck was at odds with the information  Mr M had declared and Uncle  Buck 
shouldve seen that he was struggling to manage his money and so further borrowing wasnt 
sustainable.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and in particular said that the loan was 
affordable on the figures given and it wasnt responsible  for Mr Ms inaccurate declaration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN90547772I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Uncle Buck  has told us about the 
checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked  Mr M for details of his income and normal  
expenditure. And Uncle Buck carried  out checks on Mr Ms credit  file. 
Mr M asked  to borrow £400 but Uncle Buck  agreed  to lend £300. It was repayable in 4 
instalments. Mr M said his income was £2800 and his outgoings were just over £1600. 
These figures included  food, utilities, rent and transport  as well as other regular monthly 
outgoings and credit commitments. The credit check undertaken by Uncle Buck  showed  
significant repayments due on short term accounts.  The picture revealed by the credit  file 
was one of an increasing debt and signs that Mr M was reliant on short term credit and not 
responsibly managing  his money.
Because the amount  that Mr M owed on his monthly commitments was significantly at odds 
with what he had told Uncle Buck I think it was reasonable  and proportionate for further 
checks to be carried out. If these checks had been carried out, Uncle Buck would have seen 
that Mr M wasnt  responsibly managing his money  and his outgoings exceeded  his income. 
This meant that further borrowing was unsustainable.
On the figures  Uncle Buck  had on the credit check, it showed around  £1600 was due out in 
credit repayments. If Mr Ms other outgoings  were accurate then he couldnt  afford  the 
instalments.
Although the loan looked affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  I think it was 
reasonable for Uncle Buck  to have seen that Mr M wasnt responsibly managing his money 
and so any further borrowing was unsustainable. And so I think Uncle  Buck shouldve 
realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend any money  to Mr M.
Mr M was unable  to repay what he had borrowed  which further supports the fact that the 
loan was unaffordable. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. It appears that there  is an outstanding balance  but I 
have expressed the redress  on the basis that Mr M may have paid something towards the 
outstanding balance since this complaint came to me. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
Ref: DRN90547773A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on any loans without an outstanding balance, not including  anything  it has 
already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr M as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Uncle Buck should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Uncle Buck should try to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr M.
E.Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
*
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9054777