K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Welcome  Financial Services (trading as Shopacheck Financial  Services)  
provided him with a number of unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about four home  collected credit loans Shopacheck provided to Mr R 
between October 2012 and September 2013. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint  as he didnt think Shopacheck had treated  
Mr R unfairly.  Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Shopacheck needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. But the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater 
the risk of it becoming  unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So 
wed expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
Shopacheck says it agreed to Mr Rs applications  after he provided  details of his weekly  
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr R provided showed that hed be able to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to as and when they fell due. And in 
these circumstances  it wasnt  irresponsible  to lend. 
The first thing for me to say is that the information provided does suggest that Mr R was 
asked to provide  details  of his income  and expenditure.  I know that Mr Rs financial position  
was far worse than hed let on. For example, I can see that his income was substantially 
lower than what was declared  and he had other  existing commitments  that werent 
disclosed. Im also sorry to see and hear that Mr R was struggling financially and that 
repaying these loans has been difficult.
I also accept that Mr Rs actual financial position might well have been  apparent  if further 
information  such as credit checks or bank statements   had been obtained. But I cant  see 
that Shopacheck did carry out any credit searches  indeed  the application forms suggest 
that it didnt even have Mr Rs permission to do so for the first two loans. 
Equally Shopacheck could only make its decision based on the information  it had available  
at the time. Shopacheck being in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr R, the 
Ref: DRN95794872amounts the loans  were for and the period of borrowing,  all lead me to think that it hadnt 
quite reached the stage  where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Mr R. In these  circumstances, I dont think Shopacheck needed to take further steps  to verify 
the information provided. 
I think that it might also help for me to explain that Im only able to uphold a complaint where 
I can safely say that a lender has done  something  wrong. And, in this case,  I think that 
Shopacheck carried out reasonable checks even though its look like the information 
obtained didnt  accurately  reflect Mr Rs actual financial position. 
Shopacheck relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, Mr Rs declared  income and Mr R only taking four loans,  I think  that 
this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case,  Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9579487