K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that the car she acquired through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) Limited was unfairly repossessed.  
background 
Ms S acquired a car through a HPA with VWFS  in February 2017. She fell into arrears with 
her payments but was able to rectify this. However she fell back into arrears in October  
2017, and didnt make  any payments until February 2018. She says she was unable  to meet 
the payments  due to a decrease  in her monthly income.
VWFS repossessed the car in February  2018.  Ms S complains  this was done  unfairly  
because she didnt  receive any communication from VWFS about  its intention  to repossess 
the car. She says she didnt receive the default notice dated 3 January 2018 until after her 
car had been  repossessed and she raised her complaint.  She says the only paperwork she 
received was two failed  direct debit notices and these  only contained minimal information.
Ms S says that had she known her car was about  to be repossessed she would  have taken 
action. She provided  copies of letters which VWFS sent after the car had been repossessed. 
These letters show that VWFS had had some issues with sending  letters, and Ms S says this 
supports her explanation that she didnt  receive  the original notification letters. Ms S also 
says that VWFS appointed debt collectors  to repossess her car, after it had already been 
taken.
VWFS says it sent letters to Ms S confirming  the arrears and likely next steps.  It says that 
given the amount Ms S had paid towards her HPA it wasnt  required to obtain a court order 
before repossession  and that it repossessed the car correctly. VWFS also says it treated 
Ms S positively and sympathetically when it knew she was failing to meet  her regular 
payments. It says it requested an income and expenditure check to be completed  by Ms S 
and her partner, but that this wasnt provided.  VWFS also says that when Ms S made her 
last payment she confirmed she didnt need  any further help.
VWFS says the issues with postal  correspondence occurred after it had sent the notification 
letters to Ms S and, as such, the notification letters wouldve been dispatched correctly. 
VWFS says the only letter which mightve been  affected was the final termination  letter.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He thought that VWFS had acted reasonably in 
repossessing the car. But he thought Ms S had experienced poor customer  service  from 
VWFS due to the correspondence issues and VWFSs communications after the car had 
already been repossessed. He recommended VWFS pay Ms S £150 to compensate  her for 
this. Lastly, our investigator  said VWFS had acted  reasonably when it was made  aware of 
Ms S inability to make some of her payments. 
VWFS agreed to the compensation of £150  and asked if this could be offset against Ms S 
liability rather than paid directly. Ms S didnt accept our investigators view.  She reiterated 
that she wasnt made aware of VWFS  intentions to terminate her HPA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91650962There is no dispute that Ms S didnt make  her contractual payments for a number of months. 
She was aware  she wasnt making  her payments. However, she argues that she didnt 
receive the correct  notification letters  from VWFS  and, as such, her car was unfairly 
repossessed. 
Ms S says that she only received two letters regarding  failed  direct  debits. I have looked 
through the information provided  and can see that Ms S was sent a notice about the arrears 
on her account in August 2017. She then contacted VWFS to explain why the payment had 
been missed and to discuss  paying  the arrears.  This was discussed  and it was explained 
what could happen  if the arrears werent cleared. 
Ms S was then sent further  letters  about  the arrears  and so I find it reasonable to accept she 
was aware of the situation on her account.
Ms S was able to bring her payments up to date in September  2017  but then fell into arrears 
again. Notices about the arrears were sent and given previous discussions I think  it 
reasonable to accept  that Ms S would have  been aware of what could  happen if payments 
were not made. 
The HPA set out that if Ms S didnt keep to her side of the agreement but had paid at least a 
third of the total amount  VWFS may not be able to take back the car against her wishes  
unless a court order is obtained. However, at the time of the repossession  Ms S hadnt paid 
this amount and so no court order was required.
VWFS has provided a copy of the default letter it sent to Ms S dated  3 January 2018. Im 
satisfied the notice clearly  explains why Ms S has breached  her agreement,  and the amount 
of arrears she was in. It confirms clearly  to Ms S that if you fail to pay the arrears  before 22 
JAN 2018, you will be deemed to have  repudiated the Agreement  and we may take action to 
enforce our rights under the Agreement. Possible actions may involve: terminating the 
Agreement; Recovering possession of the vehicle, arrears of rentals  and any late payment 
interest.. I appreciate  that Ms S says she didnt receive  this letter,  but I have no reason to 
doubt it was dispatched correctly. It is correctly  addressed and coincides with the timeline of 
non-payment which Ms S has confirmed,  and her account statements show. 
As Ms S didnt respond to this notice, VWFS  took steps to repossess the car. I can see that 
when the termination notice was due to be sent out, VWFS were  experiencing issues  with its 
communications. Therefore this letter wasnt set out at the time. However as the default 
notice was issued  and I have nothing to suggest this was not sent out correctly, and VWFS 
had made  Ms S aware of the status of her account and what would happen if payment 
wasnt made, I find that it didnt do anything wrong by terminating  her HPA and then 
repossessing the car.
VWFS did experience issues with its communications which meant  that Ms S was contacted  
after her car had been repossessed. This will have  caused Ms S trouble and upset and I 
agree with our investigators recommendation that £150 compensation is paid. VWFS asked 
this this be offset against the outstanding liability. However as this is for the trouble and 
upset Ms S was caused I think it fair that this is paid directly  to Ms S.
Having looked  through the contact  VWFS had with Ms S I can see that it did try to work with 
her when she was experiencing issues making  her payments. I would expect VWFS to 
Ref: DRN91650963continue to treat Ms S positively and sympathetically  when dealing  with the outstanding 
balance on her account.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
agreed, pay Ms S £150 for the trouble and upset she experienced. This should be paid 
directly to Ms S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9165096