K820x#14Complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain  that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly avoided  their home insurance policy.
Any reference to QIC Europe Ltd (QEL)  includes its agents and appointed representatives  in 
this case.
Background
Mrs and Mr M bought a new property and purchased a home insurance policy with QEL in 
October 2018. In February 2019  they contacted QEL to query  whether they would be 
covered under the policy for damage that had occurred to their household belongings.
Mrs M told QEL the insured property  hadnt  been  occupied since  they took out the policy  as 
it was undergoing renovation works.  And that the familys household  belongings had been  
kept in a storage facility while they stayed with family members. 
QEL revisited the questions Mrs and Mr M were  asked  about occupancy during the 
application process for the policy and the answers  given. They were as follows:
When is the property generally occupied?,  to which they answered,  Occupied night 
and day
Who lives in the property?, to which they answered, Policyholder  and family members
Is this your main  residence, to which they answered, Permanent main  residence
Will the property be left empty for more than 30 consecutive days? (e.g holidays), to 
which they answered, No
QEL concluded that Mrs and Mr Ms property had been unoccupied from policy inception  
so the answers  they gave to the above questions  were  wrong.  It also said it sent them full 
details of the policy application  after they took it out online, and so if any information was 
incorrect, Mrs and Mr M shouldve told QEL at that time  but they never did this. 
QEL said that had it known Mrs and Mr Ms property was unoccupied  it wouldnt have 
offered them  cover.  So it avoided the policy back to inception and refunded  the premiums 
paid. Mrs and Mr M later said that the property was in fact occupied  as Mr M had stayed 
over at the property on and off and that builders  had been at the property throughout the 
day. But QEL maintained its position  on the matter, so Mrs and Mr M brought their complaint 
to this service. 
They said QELs decision  was unfair  as they hadnt made a claim on the policy, and simply 
wanted to cancel it. They were unhappy theyd have to declare the avoidance to future 
insurers. And they provided utility bills showing  that gas and electricity was being used at the 
property, which they said proved the property was occupied. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  Mrs and Mr M had provided  
QEL with incorrect information  about the occupancy of their property. She said while  the 
utility bills showed gas and electricity usage, she was persuaded by evidence from QEL that 
the usage levels shown on the bills, were  much lower than the average  energy consumption  
for a family of Mrs and Mr Ms size. Which persuaded her they werent occupying the 
property in line with the policy terms.
Ref: DRN92859442The investigator was also satisfied that in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), a qualifying  misrepresentation had been made in this 
case. And so QEL was entitled to avoid  the policy and refund the premiums  that had been 
paid. So she didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mrs and Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  for broadly the same reasons as the investigator 
and Ill explain why. 
In bringing this complaint, both parties  have made a number of points, and Ive carefully 
considered whats  been said. But in this decision,  Ill focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  following  the investigators  assessment of this complaint.  And to decide if 
QEL has dealt with Mrs and Mr M in a fair and reasonable way.
QEL has avoided Mrs and Mr Ms home insurance  policy as it says they failed to tell it that 
the property was unoccupied, and it says cover  isnt available in these circumstances. But 
Mrs and Mr M disagree and are of the view that their property was occupied  so the policy  
shouldnt have been avoided and they should instead be allowed the opportunity to cancel it 
as they didnt make a claim.
Unoccupied is defined in the policy terms as: We consider your home to be unoccupied 
when it is not lived in by you or your family for more  than 30 days  in a row. Lived in means  
slept in frequently  (we will not accept visits to the home or occasional overnight  stays as 
living in your home). We consider your home  to be unoccupied from the first day that the 
home was not lived in, which  may be before the date this insurance starts.
Ive listened to the calls between QEL and Mrs M that took place in February 2019  several 
months after the policy was purchased. And during  these calls Mrs M tells QEL that nobody  
had lived at the insured property since the policy  started because of renovation  work  that 
needed to be completed before they could move in  such as relaying  floors  and plastering 
walls. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely Mrs and Mr M wouldve been aware of this 
information at policy inception, so Im persuaded the answers they gave to the questions (as 
set out in the background of this case)  were incorrect. I think  the questions  QEL asked in this 
case were clear and specific, so Im satisfied  Mrs and Mr M failed  to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation in this case.
As set out in the background of this decision,  relevant  law for this complaint is the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And it sets out the action an 
insurer can take when  a qualifying misrepresentation occurs.  But for it to be a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA,  the insurer must also show that had the correct information  
been provided it wouldnt have provided  cover or would only have  done  so on different 
terms. 
Ref: DRN92859443QEL has provided us with details of its underwriting  criteria. And this shows that it doesnt  
provide cover for properties that are unoccupied. Therefore, had Mrs and Mr M answered 
the application questions correctly, QEL wouldnt have offered them  a policy. So Im 
persuaded by the evidence that a qualifying misrepresentation was made in this case.
QEL says its treated this as a careless misrepresentation. And under  CIDRA, where  its a 
careless misrepresentation  and no claim has been made, and where the insurer  wouldnt 
have provided  the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy  and refuse all claims. But 
it must  return  the premiums paid.  From what Ive seen, this is the action QEL has taken, so I 
think its acted in line with CIDRA and I wont  be directing it to do anything further.
Ive considered all of Mrs and Mr Ms comments, including what theyve said about the 
property being  occupied because builders were  there during the day and that Mr M stayed 
there on and off during the night.  And also, the points they made  about  the energy  usage  on 
the utility bills.
But I dont think on and off overnight stays meet the policy requirement of being slept  in 
frequently for the reasons  Ive explained  above.  And the policy terms require the occupancy  
to be undertaken  by the policyholders   not third parties such as builders. And on balance, I 
agree with what the investigator has already said about the energy usage. I also cant ignore 
Mrs Ms own earlier comments to QEL where  she told it no one was staying at the property. 
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285944