K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, was wrong to give her a 
loan that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss H borrowed  £150  from Mr Lender in November 2012  and she rolled over the loan on 
five occasions  before it was passed  to a debt collection agency. She thinks  Mr Lender was 
irresponsible to give her the loan because  she couldnt afford to repay  it. She was already 
paying back other lenders though a debt management plan. She says that rolling over the 
loan trapped her in a spiral of debt.
The adjudicator thought  that this complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think  Mr 
Lender was wrong  when  it agreed  the loan but he said that when  it was asked to roll over the 
loan for a fourth time it should have found  out more about Miss Hs circumstances to assess  
whether she could afford the repayment. The Lending  Code  for Small Cash  Advances said 
that customers shouldnt  be allowed to extend a loan on more than three occasions. He 
thought Mr Lender should refund  the fees and interest Miss H paid from the fourth rollover  
and pay interest on that amount.
Mr Lender didnt agree. It said that it didnt consider rollovers  to be a sign of financial 
difficulty. And when  Miss H asked for the rollovers she was kept fully aware of her options for 
reducing the debt and it suggested she made payments towards the original amount 
borrowed. She repaid the rollovers  on time.
Mr Lender said that it followed its trade  associations good  practice  customer  charter  and 
wasnt privy to another associations lending code.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss H 
and to Mr Lender on 31 October 2018. I summarise my findings:
Mr Lender  was required  to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Miss H could afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to 
be proportionate to things such as the amount Miss H was borrowing, when it was due to 
be repaid, and her lending history,  but there was no set list of checks  Mr Lender had to 
do.
Mr Lender  has told us about the checks  it did before  lending  to Miss H. It asked her for 
details of her income and it gathered  information on Miss Hs circumstances from a credit 
reference agency. It has recorded  her income  as £1,200 and the results of its credit 
check didnt show any other problems with Miss Hs finances  such  as delinquent  
accounts or county  court judgements. 
Miss H borrowed  £150 to be repaid within six days. The loan repayment was £172.50 
and, as this wasnt  a particularly large amount in relation to her income, I think  the 
checks that Mr Lender carried out for this loan went far enough.
Although Miss H paid the interest  she wasnt  able to repay the principal amount shed 
borrowed. So Mr Lender agreed to roll the loan over and Miss H just had to make 
Ref: DRN96562502another interest payment.  And it did the same for a further four months. So Miss H rolled 
this loan over five times in all.
In 2012 a trade body for consumer  finance companies issued some guidance for its 
members that no more than three1 rollovers should  be permitted. I appreciate  that Mr 
Lender wasnt a member of that trade body at that time so wasnt bound  by its guidance. 
But I dont think its unreasonable for me to consider that guidance in the light of being 
good industry practice at the time. 
I considered that Mr Lender shouldve been concerned  about  the number of roll-overs, 
the state of her finances and the impact this was having on Miss Hs ability  to repay  the 
loan. I thought this was an indicator of financial  difficulty  and should have alerted Mr 
Lender that the loan might not have been affordable. I didnt think  it was fair of Mr Lender  
to keep on deferring without finding out more about whether  Miss H could afford to repay 
the lending.
Whilst I accepted that Mr Lender wasnt wrong  to allow  Miss H to roll her loans over on 
so many occasions, I do think that her repeated requests should have led to it doing far 
more comprehensive  checks  to determine  her true financial position.  I didnt think  it was 
reasonable to rely on the information provided  by Miss H for these checks.  
When Miss H asked  to roll over her loan for a third time at the end of January  2013, I 
thought Mr Lender should have asked her not only about her income,  but also about her 
normal living expenses,  financial commitments and any other short term borrowing she 
had.
If Mr Lender  had asked these questions I thought it would have seen that she had, at 
most, disposable income of £600  from which she needed to repay not only the loan from 
Mr Lender but also over £800  to other  short term lenders.
When she asked to rollover for the fourth  and fifth time, Mr Lender  should have been 
examining her financial circumstances in some  detail. If it had taken these steps  it would 
have seen that Miss H had to make repayments of between £600 and £800 to other  
lenders and she couldnt afford the loan.
Subject to any further representations from Miss H or Mr Lender,  my provisional decision 
was that I thought it was wrong for Mr Lender to agree to rollover the loan on the third or 
subsequent occasions.
Mr Lender disagreed with my decision. It said that before each rollover  it asked Miss H to let 
it know if she wasnt able to make  the payment or was in any sort of financial difficulty. She 
didnt so, it had no evidence that she wasnt able to repay so it doesnt believe the rollovers  
were unaffordable.
Miss H responded  to say that she has now paid off the debt in full.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 The provisional decision referred to two rollovers. This should  have said three.
Ref: DRN96562503Mr Lender suggests that there wasnt any evidence to show  that the loan wasnt affordable  
and Miss H didnt tell it she was having any difficulties.  The guidance from The Office  of Fair 
Trading (OFT, which Mr Lender was regulated by at the time,  was clear about  the 
responsibility of the lender to take reasonable steps  to ensure that a borrower could  
sustainably repay  their loans. The OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance states Assessing 
affordability is a borrower-focussed  test which  involves a creditor  assessing a borrowers  
ability to undertake a specific  credit  commitment,  or specific additional credit commitment,  in 
a sustainable  manner, without the borrower  incurring (further)  financial difficulties.
When Miss H first asked for the loan Im satisfied that Mr Lenders checks  went  far enough. 
When she asked to rollover her loan for the first and second time, I think  Mr Lender should  
have been asking Miss H about her regular monthly living costs and financial commitments. 
But if it had done  so, I still think it would have thought the loan affordable.
By the time Miss H asked  to roll over for a third time I dont think Mr Lender did enough to 
assess her ability to repay the loan. It wasnt enough  to simply ask her if she was having  any 
difficulties. As a responsible lender I think it should have asked specific  questions  about not 
just her income but also her monthly  living costs, other financial commitments  and any short 
term loans she had. It hasnt shown that it did this for the third or subsequent rollovers. If it 
had done so, I think it would have seen  that Miss H couldnt  afford to make her repayments 
in a sustainable manner. And it wouldnt have agreed to the rollover  requests.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to extend Miss Hs loan from 31 January  2013 
onwards, so I require  it to:
refund  all the fees that Miss H paid for the third and subsequent rollovers
refund  all interest and charges applied since Miss H extended  the loan for a third time
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Hs credit file in relation to the third 
and subsequent rollovers
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited  to 
put matters right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9656250