K822xcomplaint
Mr V is unhappy Capquest Debt Recovery Limited (Capquest) have said they didnt receive 
his subject access request (SAR) and hes also upset about the information he was asked to 
provide to prove his identity.
background 
Mr V wrote to Capquest in July 2018 and made a subject access  request. He included a 
payment of £1 which he said was the fee for requesting the information Capquest  held about  
him. But he was unhappy  that Capquest didnt get back  to him so he complained to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who told Capquest to respond in 30 days. 
Capquest therefore  wrote to Mr V asking him to confirm his identity so they could process 
the SAR but Mr V wrote back telling Capquest he didnt want  to share any more  information 
with them.
As Capquest  were unable  to identify Mr V they wrote and explained they couldnt provide the 
information hed requested. In this letter they said that they had no record of the original SAR 
request that Mr V had explained  hed sent in July 2018.
Mr V eventually referred his complaint to this service. He said Capquest  had lied to him and 
had received his SAR request and he thought  they were wrong to ask for additional  identity 
checks.
Our investigator agreed that Capquest had most  probably received the SAR request as she 
noted Mr Vs £1 payment,  that had been  included in his July request, had been returned  to 
him at the start of December with a Capquest group, letter headed, hand  written note 
thanking him for the fee but saying this was no longer required.  
But the investigator didnt think Capquest had been  wrong to make further identity checks as 
she noted Mr Vs address  was different than the one hed had when the debt Capquest were  
pursuing was sold to them. She explained  that it wasnt for her to decide what  identity 
checks Capquest made but she could decide if they were reasonable and in these 
circumstances she thought that was the case.
Overall, the investigator  understood  that Capquest disputing the receipt  of the SAR had 
delayed Mr Vs receipt of the information  he required. She thought  that would have been 
distressing and inconvenient and in the circumstances she thought  Capquest  should pay 
Mr V £50 compensation.
But Mr V disagreed. He said that although  the investigator had said she couldnt  decide what  
checks the business were  able to use to check identity: thats exactly what shed done. And 
he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Ref: DRN98601972Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
SAR
Capquest couldnt  have returned Mr Vs payment if they hadnt  received it and as Mr Vs 
SAR request explained that a £1 fee was included, and a £1 fee was returned  to him, I think 
its most  likely Capquest  received the SAR letter as well as the fee.
In those circumstances I agree that Mr Vs SAR request has been frustrated by Capquests  
refusal to accept it had been made  in writing and I think it would be fair for them  to pay £50 
to compensate Mr V for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result  of their 
actions.
identity checks
I agree  with the investigator that its for Capquest  and not this service to decide  what identity 
checks it will perform. I dont think our investigator did decide  what checks  should be 
performed but she was right to consider whether the actions of Capquest,  in requesting  the 
checks, was reasonable. And, as Capquest had conflicting information about Mr Vs address 
I think it was reasonable  of them  to ask him to demonstrate it was him they were 
communicating with. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Capquest to take any further 
action on this point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Capquest  Debt  
Recovery Limited to pay Mr V £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  
hes experienced with this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9860197