K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr B has complained about  the delays in Phoenix Life Limited, making a 
payment to him from his flexible income  drawdown plan. He also thinks  it has been 
dishonest in its interactions with him. 
background
In March 2018 Mr B made a request to Phoenix  to take a payment from his income 
drawdown plan.  When he hadnt had an acknowledgment of his request from Phoenix,  Mr B 
contacted it to find out what  was happening.  
Phoenix told Mr B that the request had been received on 29 March  2018. He was told that it 
would take 10 working days  to process  his request. It also said he should  have received the 
payment on 19 April 2018. But it wasnt received by Mr B until 23 April 2018.
Mr B complained to Phoenix about  the time it took to process his application. And he thought 
he had been given misleading information as to when he would receive his payment.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Phoenix acknowledged that it didnt provide him with an 
appropriate level of service. It went on to say that his withdrawal request had been received 
on 29 March 2018. Its turnaround time for dealing  with withdrawal  requests  was 10 working 
days from receipt. So, it said it should  have been  processed by 17 April 2018. But the work  
request had been set up incorrectly. 
It accepted that Mr B had been  given  incorrect information when he was told payment should  
reach him in 48 hours. The fund value on 20 April 2018 was unchanged from 17 April 2018, 
which it said meant that he hadnt been  financially disadvantaged. It offered interest on the 
late payment and £50 for the distress  and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the outcome,  so Phoenix  agreed to review his concerns again. In its 
response it accepted  it had provided him with incorrect information. But it didnt believe it had 
lied to him. It accepted  it had made  a mistake with the timescales it had given him. It 
increased its compensation offer to £100  for the trouble  and upset he had been caused and 
added a further £15 to cover the cost of his calls. Plus, the late payment interest of £5.45.
Mr Bs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators.  He explained why he didnt  
think Phoenix needed to do anything more  in respect of the compensation it had offered. 
Mr B didnt agree. In his response  to the investigator,  he reiterated the two main points of 
complaint which  encompassed repeated delays, and repeated falsehoods  which he said 
Phoenix had made. And he didnt agree with the compensation that had been offered. 
Mr B explained why he didnt accept his request to take a further tranche of drawdown  took 
10 days to reach Phoenix. And he referred  to the civil procedure rules (CPR) as to why he 
believed his request should have been  deemed  to have reached Phoenix by 20 March 2018.  
And he thought  the date stamp had been falsely applied. 
He went to say that the 10-day turnaround time that he had been  given  proved  to be false. 
And the promise he was given  a week later he also said was false, as was what he was told 
in a third call on 17 April 2018.  He thought the investigator had minimised  the repeated  
delays, and what he thought were coverups. He also didnt accept that the investment units  
Ref: DRN99792192needed to be encashed as they were in a cash fund. And he explained why he thought the 
redress offered was inadequate. He wanted Phoenix  to be penalised for the delay.
When Mr B was advised that the complaint would proceed to a decision,  he reiterated his 
concerns he had made in his response to the investigators  view.  The case has now been 
passed to me for review.  
I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2021,  explaining  why I intended to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. In response Mr B said in summary,  that he had to chase Phoenix on several  
occasions. He asked if the time of the bank transfer had been checked  and noted  the cash  
fund had been invested, but posed  the question as to whose benefit it had been invested  for.
In response Phoenix  said it agreed  with my provisional decision to pay Mr B £200 and 
additional interest. It said the claim value remained the same  on 13 April 2018 and additional 
interest from 13 April to 23 April 2018,  which totalled  £13.62 net. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix has accepted my findings  in relation to the compensation Ive proposed. Ive 
thought carefully  about Mr Bs response. And having done so, I still intend  to uphold the 
complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. Ive set out my 
reasoning again below.  
Its clear to me that Mr B feels very strongly about what happened and about the delays that 
occurred. And I can understand his frustrations regarding the misinformation,  delays  and 
mistakes Phoenix made when processing  his payment request.
Phoenix has acknowledged that it made mistakes and that it gave Mr B incorrect information. 
That isnt in dispute. But Mr B thinks its actions go beyond that, and that it was dishonest in 
the way it communicated with him. That is a very serious allegation. And Ive thought  very 
carefully about this. In order to help me consider further what  Mr B was told in the phone 
calls he had with Phoenix, I asked it to provide me with the call recordings for the 
conversations it had with him.
Phoenix said that its calls from 2018 had been archived, and the call it supplied was the only 
one that it was able to locate. Ive listened to that call, which appears to have taken place on 
20 April 2018. The first thing that strikes me is that the call is 34 minutes long. But Mr B is 
kept waiting to speak to a customer service assistant for 24 minutes. Mr B is put through  to 
someone from the contact  centre,  who I will refer to as H. She promises to contact the 
drawdown team for Mr B and come back to him in an hour, with an update  in respect  of his 
payment. Its clear to me from what Ive heard, that Mr B is frustrated in not being  able to 
speak to someone from the drawdown  team directly and for the delays he had already  
experienced.  
Ive also seen the call notes provided by Phoenix. These record  that on 17 April 2018 the 
drawdown team said his payment request had been allocated to the wrong work queue  and 
that it would  be processed  that afternoon and a CHAPS payment made. He was also told 
that it would  take 48 hours for the payment to clear. 
Ref: DRN99792193Mr B then spoke to H on 20 April 2018.  And the call notes record that the full fund value 
would be released  that morning by CHAPS. But that didnt happen, as Phoenix has said that 
the payment was received  by Mr B on 23 April 2018. Although  Mr B has questioned the time 
the transfer was made, I dont think that is relevant. This is because its clear  that payment 
didnt happen  when Phoenix told him it would. So, its not in dispute that it gave him incorrect  
information. 
I can understand therefore  Mr Bs frustration, as he was given incorrect information about  
when the payment would  be made  on two separate occasions. And as he was told the 
payments would be made by way of a CHAPS transfer, I can also understand why, he not 
unreasonably had an expectation  that the funds  would  be received the same day.
So, Im satisfied that several  mistakes were made by Phoenix  in what it told Mr B and that 
those mistakes compounded what was already  a difficult and frustrating experience for him. 
And I agree that he had to chase Phoenix  on several occasions for updates as to what  was 
happening. 
But I dont agree with Mr B that Phoenixs  representatives acted dishonestly,  or deliberately 
misled him. I say this because I simply dont have enough evidence  to decide that Mr B was 
deliberately or knowingly  given  incorrect information.  And based  on the information I do 
have, I think that the mistakes were made without any deliberate  intent to deceive.
Ive also thought about Mr Bs concerns regarding the date stamp  on his payment request. 
He doesnt believe  that it accurately records when his payment request was received by 
Phoenix. And he has referred to the CPR, as to when he thinks his payment request should  
be deemed to have been received by Phoenix.
I dont agree with Mr Bs argument. The CPR is relevant to the conduct  of civil court 
proceedings. And rule 2.1 of the CPR specifically references that the rules apply to all 
proceedings in the County Court, the High Court  and the Civil Division of the Court  of 
Appeal. In addition,  rule 1 sets out the rules  are a procedural code with the overriding 
objective of enabling the court  to deal with cases justly and at a proportionate cost. So, I 
dont think they are applicable or relevant as to when Mr Bs payment request was received  
by Phoenix. 
Mr B also argues that as he sent the request by first class post, it couldnt have taken from 
22 March (the date on his payment request),  until 29 March  for the letter to have been  
received by Phoenix. I accept that Mr B might  have had an expectation that his payment 
request would have  been  received  sooner  than it was. But that doesnt mean that his request 
wasnt delayed in the post and arrived with Phoenix on the date it was date stamped. 
Delays to the post do happen. And I dont  know when  his request entered the postal system. 
Also, I dont think it is necessarily unusual  for a letter to arrive in the time frame that Mr Bs 
letter did, via the post office  network.  As to Mr Bs assertion that the date stamp may have 
been falsely applied,  there simply isnt the evidence to support that allegation,  or for me to 
be able to make a finding that it was. 
Mr B has questioned that as his money  was invested in a cash fund,  why did it need  to be 
encashed. If Mr Bs holdings were held in a bank account within his pension as is possible 
with some types of pension arrangements,  I could  understand his concerns. But they 
werent. 
Ref: DRN99792194Mr Bs holdings  in the drawdown plan were in cash, but they were  in a unitised  fund which  
invested in money  assets. I dont think this was for any partys particular benefit. It was 
simply how that fund operated. 
The fact that it was a unitised fund is evidenced  by Mr Bs income withdrawal statement. 
This shows the number  of units and the unit price  at that time of the statement. And what  
Mr B has said, appears to acknowledge they were in a fund rather than in cash per se. This 
cash fund was no different than any other  type of unitised fund such  as an equity-based 
fund. This meant that for the funds to be released,  the required number of units  in the money 
fund would have  to be encashed.
Ive also thought about the time frame that the payment process  took. For the reasons Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied that the whole process should have started on 29 March 
2018. Friday the 30 March and Monday 2 April 2018  were Easter  bank holidays that year. 
So, allowing  for Phoenixs 10 working  days  turnaround time to process the payment (which 
in this case I dont  think is an unreasonable period  of time), I cant see why the payment 
couldnt have  been made to Mr B by 13 April 2018.  And I think the encashment  of the units 
should have taken place within the 10-working  day time frame, otherwise it would be a 12 
working day time frame.  So, for those reasons I dont agree with Phoenix or Mr B in respect 
of when the payment should  have  been  made.
Mr B disagrees with the compensation offered to him by Phoenix.  He doesnt think it is 
enough to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience he feels  that he has suffered 
as a result  of Phoenixs mistakes and behaviour towards him. And hes proposed  a 
compensation formula which he says is applied by a well-known high-street business. He 
also wants Phoenix to be penalised for the delays  and its behaviour  towards him.
In determining what is appropriate compensation, that is a matter  for me to decide  taking  into 
account the individual facts of a case.  And the dispute resolution rules  under which  I and this 
service operate,  do allow me to make  an award for distress and inconvenience  which  Mr B 
may have  suffered. But there is no provision for me to make  a punitive award against 
Phoenix as Mr B appears  to want me to do. That isnt my role and I have no authority to 
make such  an award. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above I do think  that Mr B has suffered distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of Phoenixs mistakes. And in deciding what  is an appropriate 
compensation figure, I need to think about the impact this has all had on Mr B. 
As Ive explained above, Mr B was led to believe that the payment would be shortly be made 
to him on two separate occasions. And Ive heard  the frustration and concern felt by Mr B in 
the one call that Phoenix has been  able to provide. And when  I think about that evidence in 
conjunction with the other  available evidence, Ive reached the conclusion that Mr B was 
impacted by Phoenixs mistakes. 
Putting things  right
I recognise that not having access to his pension payment when he expected to, was 
frustrating for Mr B. But Im also mindful  that the delays were over a relatively short  period of 
time. However, I dont  think  the compensation offered by Phoenix  is enough  to compensate  
Mr B for his distress and inconvenience, when I look at whats  happened in the round. And I 
think for the reasons Ive explained above, a figure of £200  is more appropriate to 
compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
Ref: DRN99792195In addition to this award, I also think that Phoenix needs to compensate  Mr B for the late 
payment. So, it needs to pay him simple interest at the rate of 8% a year on the payment 
from 13 April to 23 April 2018. In response  to my provisional decision it said there was no 
difference in the claim value on 13 April 2018. That may be the case, but as I said in my 
provisional decision Phoenix needs to provide details of that calculation  to Mr B.  
If there are differences in the unit prices, then Phoenix needs to pay Mr B the difference 
(less any income tax that would have been  deducted from that payment) if the calculation 
shows he has suffered a loss.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
Phoenix Life Limited. If Mr B accepts my decision, it needs to calculate and pay him 
compensation as Ive directed in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9979219