K821x#15complaint
Mr K acquired and had fitted engine components for his car, by means  of a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited in June  2017.  He complains that these 
components, as fitted, were not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 19 September  2019   a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I agreed  with our adjudicators view that 
the complaint  should be upheld in part. But I disagreed with his settlement recommendations. 
Our adjudicator concluded both that Mr K had complained  to the supplier  soon after he first 
took delivery of his car with the installed components, and that repairs had been 
unsuccessfully attempted.  This meant that Omni needed either to accept responsibility  for 
the unsatisfactory quality, or to establish that the problems were  not present or developing at 
the point of supply. 
I thought the weight  of evidence supported these views and, on balance, I came  to the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. 
My provisional settlement  recommendations were:
Omni should  arrange  and pay for an independent inspection of Mr Ks car engine by a 
suitably accredited  organisation, and provide a copy  of the inspection report to this 
service within two months of the date of this provisional decision
If the inspection indicated that the goods  were not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, then Omni should  treat the goods  as rejected,  and it should pay compensation 
of £200 for distress  and inconvenience directly  to Mr K
I added (in my provisional findings) it was unlikely that I would uphold this complaint:
If the inspection indicated the goods were of satisfactory quality at the point of supply
Or if Mr K decided not to allow the inspection  to be carried out 
And, if Omni  decided not to carry out the inspection, my final decision was likely to be:
The goods were not of satisfactory quality
Omni should  treat them as rejected
The fixed sum loan agreement should be cancelled
Mr Ks deposit and 50% of the monthly payments required under his fixed  sum loan 
agreement should  be refunded (plus  interest)
Compensation should also be paid for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr Ks car engine was inspected in November 2019,  but the inspectors report was 
inconclusive. It confirmed  that faults were  present, although it was unable  to confirm when 
the faults had occurred.  In February  2020,  the inspecting organisation advised that a further 
inspection was unlikely  to be conclusive. This advice meant that the resulting situation was 
equivalent to the inspection not having  been  carried out.
Ref: DRN90894872Omni made a settlement  offer in March 2020, which it described  as a goodwill gesture, 
as follows:
The fixed sum loan agreement should be cancelled
Mr Ks deposit and 50% of the monthly payments required under his fixed  sum loan 
agreement should  be refunded (plus  interest)
Compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience
Mr K responded to this offer:
Pointing out the he had incurred consequential  losses, relating to his cars recovery  
(£350) and storage  (£560)
Seeking confirmation that he will retain his car and the components  which have been 
installed in it
Saying that he felt it would unfair if he was refunded only 50% of his monthly payments, 
for the period from April 2018 onwards  because he was able to make  so little use of his 
car between then and March 2019  (when it failed an MOT test), and no use thereafter 
Our adjudicator replied  to Mr K:
Asking him for invoices and evidence  of their payment,  relating  to his consequential  losses
Clarifying that the car will remain with him, because the loan agreement relates only to 
the components installed in 2017,  and as part of subsequent  (unsuccessful)  repairs
Saying that it would  not be cost effective for the installed components  to be removed 
from his car
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Taking into account Omnis  offer and Mr Ks responses,  I have revised my redress 
recommendations as follows. Mr K should retain his car (including the installed components), 
and Omni  should:  
Cancel Mr Ks fixed  sum loan agreement 
Refund to Mr K his deposit, 50% of the monthly payments required under his agreement 
up to and including  March 2019,  and 100%  of these payments thereafter (plus  interest) 
Remove all references to this agreement  it may have made  on Mr Ks credit file, 
providing there  is no outstanding balance in the agreement account
Pay Mr K compensation  of £250  for distress and inconvenience
Refund Mr Ks consequential losses, if (but only if) the required evidence is provided  
I concluded (in my provisional findings) that Mr Ks monthly payments should  be partially 
refunded, because he had been  able to make  some use of his car during the period up to 
March 2019 (when  it was taken off road). I continue to think  that a 50% refund for the period 
up to March 2019 is fair. But I accept that a 100%  refund  would be fair thereafter, when the 
car could  not be used  at all.
Ref: DRN90894873Mr K has provided to us the required copies of invoices and evidence  of their payment. And  
Omni has accepted  all but the last element (refund of consequential losses) of my revised 
redress. It told us:
It does not accept that the goods  were of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply
Its offer was strictly a goodwill gesture
In these circumstances, it considers that payment for consequential losses  would not be 
appropriate 
I note Omnis response to my revised redress. But it has been unable to establish that the 
faults, which were present  in the goods when they were inspected, were not also present or 
developing at the point of supply. 
Mr K complained to the supplier about  these faults  soon after taking delivery.  In these 
circumstances, it is more  likely than not that they were present or developing at the point of 
supply. And so:
On balance,  I find that the goods  were  of unsatisfactory quality  at the point  of supply
In these circumstances, I find as well that payment  for consequential losses is 
reasonable and appropriate
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Omni  Capital Retail  Finance Limited:
1.To cancel Mr Ks fixed sum loan agreement 
2.To refund to Mr K his deposit, 50% of the monthly payments required under his 
agreement up to and including March 2019,  and 100%  of these  payments  thereafter, plus 
interest at 8% per annum  simple from the dates of payment to the date of settlement 
3.To remove all references to this agreement it may have made  on Mr Ks credit file, 
providing there  is no outstanding balance in the agreement account
4.To pay directly to Mr K compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience
5.To refund Mr Ks consequential losses of £910 
If Omni considers it has to deduct  tax from the interest element of my award, it should send 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate when it pays him. He can then use that certificate  to try to 
reclaim the tax, if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90894874COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
19 September 2019
complaint
Mr K acquired  and had fitted engine components for his car, by means  of a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Omni  Capital Retail Finance Limited  in June 2017. He complains  that these  components, as 
fitted, were not of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply.
background
The purpose  of the components Mr K acquired  was to improve his cars performance.  Their cost was 
just over £11,000.  The supplier of these components  fitted them into his car. Mr K did not consider the 
result to be of satisfactory  quality.
Mr K said:
There  were delays in the supply and fitting of the components
He was in contact with the supplier throughout the period between  June 2017 and February 
2018, when he referred his complaint to Omni
He returned  his car to the supplier  on several  occasions during this period,  so that the faults 
causing the unsatisfactory performance could  be rectified   but the supplier was unable  to 
achieve a satisfactory outcome 
As at May 2018, he had barely been able to travel 6,000 miles in his car since the components 
had been  installed
Omni took some time to respond, when the complaint was referred  to it. It initially  discussed
Mr Ks concerns with the supplier, but was unable to clarify with it the cause of his problems.
And so during autumn 2018  it made an offer to Mr K, to pay for his cars  engine to be inspected  by a 
suitably accredited independent  organisation.
This is a route  often taken  by finance providers  without  in-house mechanical knowledge, who then 
rely on the evidence provided by an independent expert to reach  a fair and reasonable outcome in 
complaints like Mr Ks. The organisation selected  by Omni  was one of a small number of such firms 
often used for that purpose.
Mr K declined Omnis offer, because he felt the selected  organisation would not have the relevant  
specialist expertise.  In the absence of expert evidence, Omni told him in
November 2018 that it was unable to uphold his complaint.
But Omni did acknowledge that its handling  of Mr Ks complaint had taken  longer than would  be 
expected. In recognition of this, it paid compensation of £150 to Mr K.
Mr K then referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought  the complaint should be upheld in part.
Our adjudicator noted  that there was no evidence of when the Mr K first took possession  of his car 
with the installed components, or of work  undertaken by the supplier to rectify faults.
But Mr K did provide evidence  to us of correspondence from December 2017 onwards with the 
supplier about the problems he was experiencing. And our adjudicator thought  it was reasonable to 
accept Mr Ks version of events.
This meant  our adjudicator  was satisfied  that Mr K had complained about unsatisfactory quality within  
six months of taking possession.  This in turn meant that Omni  needed either to accept responsibility  
for the unsatisfactory quality, or to establish  that the problems were not present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN90894875Our adjudicator agreed with Omni that the engine  should  be independently inspected   but he also 
acknowledged Mr Ks concerns, that the organisation selected to do so would not have the relevant 
specialist expertise.  Our adjudicator recommended (in late February  2019)  that Omni should:
Pay for an independent inspection by an organisation chosen by Mr K.
Pay for removal  of the fitted components from Mr Ks car, if this is required  in order to complete 
the inspection
In early March 2019,  Omni confirmed to our adjudicator its offer to pay for an independent   inspection.  
It proposed that Mr K should choose between two of the suitably accredited independent  
organisations often used for such inspections.
But Omni also told us it understood that the value of Mr Ks car was £3,000.  In these circumstances, it 
did not believe removal and reinstallation of the fitted components would be cost effective, and so it 
would not be prepared to pay for their removal.
In mid March 2019, Mr K told us that his car was not roadworthy,  because it did not have a valid MOT  
certificate. The car appears to have failed an MOT test in early March 2019,  and was been taken off 
road (SORNed).
Mr K also told us that his concern about the lack of relevant expertise  extended to both organisations 
proposed by Omni. He provided to us a list of firms that he considered had the relevant expertise. Our 
adjudicator forwarded that list to Omni, asking if it would be prepared  to pay for an inspection 
undertaken by one of these firms.
Omni initially replied to our adjudicators question, saying that none of the firms on Mr Ks list had 
agreed to conduct the required diagnostic  inspection of his car  but it was exploring with another  firm 
whether or not it would be able to do so.
In response to Omnis initial reply, Mr K told us that he had contacted all of the firms on his list, and all 
but one had been willing to conduct the required inspection.
Our adjudicator then asked Omni for an update on its initial reply, and to confirm  whether  or not it 
would be prepared to pay for the removal  and reinstallation of the fitted components (if this is 
necessary to complete  the inspection). No further reply was received from Omni.
And so this complaint  was referred for review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
Omni has a responsibility  to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding  to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances.  But there are limits to Omnis 
responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator concluded  that Mr K had complained to the supplier  soon after he first took 
possession of his car with the installed  components, and that repairs have been unsuccessfully  
attempted. I think the weight of available evidence  supports these  views and, on balance,  I have 
come to the same conclusion  as our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN90894876As Omni did not reply to our adjudicators request  for confirmation of its position, I am setting out 
below what I am likely  to decide  and why. And, because the redress I am proposing differs 
somewhat from our adjudicators recommendations, it is important that Mr K and Omni are given the 
chance to make further comments before I issue  my final decision.
Omni offered to pay for an inspection of Mr Ks car engine, in order to determine whether the fitted 
components are faulty  and, if there are any faults,  whether they were  present or developing at the 
point of supply. In order for such an inspection to be fair from both Omnis and Mr Ks perspectives,  it 
should be conducted by a suitably  accredited independent organisation.
As noted earlier, there are a small number of such organisations often used to conduct  such  
inspections. Omni has already approached one of these organisations  and this organisation did not 
tell Omni that it lacked the relevant expertise  to inspect the engine.
In these circumstances, I think  the correct  way forward is for this organisation  to undertake the 
inspection (at Omnis  expense).  And, if it transpires that the relevant expertise is lacking,
I would look to this organisation to recommend  a suitable  alternative inspector, which  might or might 
not be from Mr Ks list.
But I do not think that Mr K can insist  on his choice  of organisation to carry out the inspection.  That 
would not be fair on Omni.
Similarly, I do not think that Omni is entitled to constrain such an inspection,  by declining to pay for 
removal and reinstallation of the fitted  components (if this is necessary to complete the inspection). 
That would not be fair on Mr K.
I think  that Omni should pay all necessary costs of the inspection,  which should  be carried out  and an 
inspection report provided to this service  within  two months of the date of this provisional decision. 
And, if the inspection indicates the goods were of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply, or if Mr K 
decides not to allow the inspection to be carried out, it is unlikely that I would uphold the complaint.
Alternatively, if the inspection  indicates that the goods were not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, and given that repairs have already been unsuccessfully attempted,  Omni could replace these 
goods. But I think a more straightforward option would be for Omni to treat the goods as rejected  by 
Mr K, and this is what  I am likely to decide.
That approach fits with our remit  as an informal  dispute resolution service. We are set up to decide  
complaints in a pragmatic  way, and as quickly as practicable.
In these circumstances:
The fixed sum loan agreement should be cancelled
Mr Ks deposit and 50% of the monthly payments required under his fixed  sum loan agreement 
should be refunded (plus interest)
Compensation should also be paid for distress and inconvenience
I think  that Mr Ks monthly payments should only be partially refunded,  if his car is rejected. This is 
because he has been able to make some  use of his car during the period up to March 2019 (when it 
was taken  off road).
I also think  that  providing there is no outstanding balance in the agreement  account,  having made  
the above  refunds  any references  Omni may have made about this agreement in Mr Ks credit file 
should be removed.
Finally, if Omni decides not to carry out the inspection and not to provide the report  to this service 
within the time period I have  set out, my final decision is likely to be:
The goods were  not of satisfactory
Omni should treat them as rejected  by Mr K.
Ref: DRN90894877The redress should be as described  above
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
K or Omni  Capital Retail Finance Limited  by 19 October 2019, my provisional decision is that I uphold  
this complaint in part.
My provisional  settlement  recommendations are:
Omni should arrange and pay for an independent inspection of Mr Ks car engine  by a suitably 
accredited organisation, and provide a copy of the inspection  report  to this service within two 
months of the date of this provisional  decision
If the inspection indicates that the goods  were not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
then Omni should  treat the goods  as rejected,  and it should  pay compensation  of £200 for 
distress and inconvenience directly  to Mr K.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9089487