K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company Limited handled 
a claim by another driver  against his motor policy. This in turn increased his policy  premium.
background
In April 17, Mr T was involved in an incident  when  parking his car with another driver. He 
didnt believe either car was damaged  so he didnt report it to LV. After Mr T returned from 
holiday letters regarding the incident were waiting for him from LV. He explained  the 
circumstances of the incident  to LV, who then decided to accept the other drivers claim.
Mr T was extremely distressed about  this as he felt the other driver was submitting a 
fraudulent claim. So he complained to LV. It didnt  think it had done anything wrong so Mr T 
brought his complaint to us. 
The adjudicator whilst  being sympathetic to Mr Ts view on the matter also didnt think LV 
had done anything wrong. Mr T remained dissatisfied so his complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I do understand and appreciate how strongly Mr T feels about this and that hes firmly 
of the view the other driver made a fraudulent claim. However,  my role is to assess  if LV 
dealt with Mr Ts issues fairly and reasonably and within  the policy terms and conditions  
based on the evidence before it. And I think it did.
As the adjudicator explained,  this service doesnt  decide who was liable for causing an 
accident as thats better dealt with in court. We do however look to ensure the insurer LV 
dealt with the matter  appropriately.
The evidence is Mr T said he reversed into a parking spot. After Mr T returned having got his 
errand, another  driver told him, he had hit his car. Mr T said the cars were  touching but he 
didnt think there was any damage. Mr T also thought that possibly the other driver had 
moved his car at the time, but he wasnt sure.
The other driver delayed  in making his claim to LV by nearly  three weeks.  This concerned  Mr 
T greatly. However, by law, the other  driver has three years from the date of the accident to 
make any claim  for either damage to their car or for personal injury.  Therefore, a delay of 
nearly three  weeks isnt that relevant. Granted most  people would make a claim or at least  
notify the other drivers  insurers before this, but the law says they have three years to make  
any such claim and therefore not much  in my view turns on the fact that here the other driver 
delayed nearly  three  weeks.
In Mr Ts first contact with LV summarised what Mr T said as youve tried parking your car 
and clipped  the other one?  Mr  T agreed  this was what  happened.  The LV representative 
and Mr T discussed the fact that Mr T thought the other driver may have also moved  their 
car. But as Mr T couldnt confirm this, the representative said LV would have to accept 
Ref: DRN98961652liability. Crucially here in my view,  Mr T then agreed  to this. He did however raise  then that 
he was concerned about the validity of the other  drivers claim. And he asked LV to look after 
it for him.
LV inspected both the other  drivers car and Mr Ts. The other drivers car had minor  damage 
in line with a low speed impact. This minor damage was in the centre  of the bumper. Mr Ts 
car didnt  have any noticeable  damage.  But Mr T later said to the adjudicator  in February  last 
year that the bumpers  of each car were overlapping with his over the other drivers bumper. 
Consequently, I think it was more probable that this overlapping could have caused the 
damage to the other drivers bumper and clearly LVs engineer  thought so in any event. 
Therefore, I dont think LV did anything wrong  in paying the costs in repairing the other  
drivers bumper. There was no other evidence such as CCTV or witnesses to dispute what 
happened here. 
As the adjudicator also explained, LVs policy in common  with virtually every  other  motor  
policy has a clause, which permits  it to have total control to conduct, defend and settle any 
claim. LV has to do this reasonably and I think it did here on this evidence.
The other driver also tried to claim for personal injury. LV strenuously resisted this claim 
given it was such a low speed impact. Ive made further enquiries with LV just before  
preparing this decision and it has confirmed its file on the other  driver  is now closed and no 
personal injury claim was made by the other  driver. Further, it had found out that the other  
driver hadnt had any medical examination at the time, so it would be very difficult  for him to 
prove any personal injury  now.
So I dont  think LV did anything wrong here.  It decided rightly  in my view that it would have  to 
accept liability for the other drivers damage  claim on the basis Mr T was reversing into the 
parking space. There was no other evidence available to dispute  this. It also appropriately 
resisted entertaining any personal injury claim.
Therefore as Mr Ts No Claims Discount (NCD)  wasnt  protected, LV did nothing wrong in 
stepping that back in line with its policy terms as it had paid another  drivers claim on Mr Ts 
behalf. This also means that Mr Ts insurance record has a fault claim against it, which again 
is correct since LV paid out the other drivers damage claim. That then raises Mr Ts risk 
profile at renewal, which invariably means  the premium increases in any event, and the 
lower numbers of years NCD also increases any premium amount too.
Weve checked  LVs calculations on this and it hasnt dealt with Mr T unfairly,  as its 
calculations are correct  and in line with its underwriting criteria. This information  cant be 
shared with Mr T as its commercially sensitive information and Im not allowed to put it in the 
public domain as we publish our decisions.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020
Ref: DRN98961653Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896165