K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money  plc didnt change his due date when he asked it to. And a 
missed payment has been unfairly recorded as a result.
background
Mr P had a Virgin Money credit card account. He said hed asked Virgin  Money to change  
the due date to the 1st of the month. But it hadnt done so. His October 2018 payment was 
due on the 23rd. But the direct  debit didnt go through. Virgin  Money has now recorded 
missed payments against Mr Ps account.  And its removed the 0% promotional  rate on his 
account. So he wants Virgin Money to put the promotional rate back. 
Virgin Money said the monthly statements  made  it clear it would remove  the promotional  rate 
if it didnt receive the minimum  payment by the due date. Mr Ps direct debit had been 
reversed. So the promotional offer was removed. And Virgin Money  couldnt  reinstate it. 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with Virgin Moneys response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps credit 
card account. And she felt Virgin Money  had acted  fairly when it withdrew the promotional 
offer. Mr P had failed  to make the minimum payment by the due date.  
She could  see Mr P said hed asked  for a change  in the payment date. But there  wasnt 
record on the banks  contact notes to confirm  this. So on balance she couldnt say Virgin 
Money had failed to carry out his instructions. And she couldnt  ask it to reinstate the 
promotional rate.
Mr P didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair that one missed payment would increase his 
monthly payments  three-fold. It would have a great  impact on his finances in the future. And 
it would  make it difficult for him to transfer the balance elsewhere.  So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr P feels the impact of a missed  payment is out of proportion.  He now has a high 
interest rate on his balance. And he has to pay a lot more each month to meet the minimum 
monthly requirement. Mr P says reporting  the missed payment  means  he cant  look for 
promotional offers elsewhere. He cant get the same terms any more.  And he feels  Virgin 
Money shouldve  done more to make him aware  of the consequences.
But its important to realise the role of this service  is to see if Virgin  Money has done  anything 
wrong. We cant look at how Virgin Money, or any bank, runs its business. Thats the role of 
its regulator the Financial  Conduct Authority.
Based on what Ive seen  I think Mr P shouldve been  aware Virgin Money  would remove the 
promotional rate when he failed to make the minimum  monthly  payment. It was clearly stated 
on his monthly statements  under the heading  important information about  promotional 
interest rates.
Ref: DRN98042922Mr P opened  his account in 2017. At the time he wouldnt have been  given an opportunity to 
select a payment date.  The due date wouldve been  automatically set 20 days  after the 
statement was generated. But Mr P couldve  contacted  Virgin Money to change the due date 
if it wasnt suitable.
I know Mr P is sure he asked Virgin Money  to change his date a number of times. But I cant  
see anything on its records to show this was the case. And Ive listened to a number of calls 
between Mr P and Virgin  Money  during 2018.  There are discussions about limit increases 
and balance transfers. But I cant see that Mr P asked for a change in the payment date 
during any of the calls. And Virgin Money has no record of such  a request.
Mr P made regular payments on the set date for many months. So I think  he was aware 
when his direct debit payment to Virgin Money was due. And it was his responsibility to 
make sure there was sufficient money  in his account  for the payment to complete.
I can see the direct debit payments for August  and September 2018 were paid without 
difficulty on the 23rd of each month. But the payments for October  and November were  
reversed. And as a result  Mr P was charged fees for the failed payments. Because Mr P 
hadnt made the minimum monthly  payment hed not followed the terms and conditions of 
the promotional  offer. So the offer was withdrawn and interest  was applied to the account.  
I do appreciate the impact  this has had on Mr P. Because  the payments were  missed he is 
now being charged interest  on his balance. And the missed payments have been reported 
on his credit file. So he feels the impact  is out of proportion for the size of the mistake.
But Ive not seen anything to suggest  Virgin Money ignored a request to alter his payment 
date. And it was Mr Ps responsibility to make  sure he was able to make at least  the 
minimum payment each month.  
I do sympathise with the situation Mr P finds himself  in. But I dont think Virgin  Money acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in withdrawing  the promotional offer after Mr Ps payments were 
unsuccessful. And it has a responsibility  to accurately report  how an account  is being 
managed to the credit agencies.
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant really say Virgin Money has done anything  wrong.  And 
I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN98042923my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9804292