K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to tell her that the motor  
insurance premium it quoted for her daughter  would  increase when her daughters  driving 
licence changed  from provisional to full.
background
Mrs J has an existing multi-car policy and a home insurance policy with Admiral. In January 
2019, Mrs J obtained  an online  quote  from Admiral for a vehicle she was thinking about  
buying for her daughter who was learning  to drive.  She followed her online search up with a 
phone call to Admiral.  Admiral checked through the policy details  and read out part of the 
relevant script before providing Mrs J with two quotes. The first was for £890 for a year if  
Mrs J paid in full up front. The second was for £1178.20 to add the new car to Mrs Js 
existing multicar policy paid by direct  debit. 
Mrs J bought the car and phoned Admiral  back a week  later.  Admiral said if she was happy 
to proceed then based on her daughter having  a full driving licence the premium would be 
£2878 for a stand-alone policy. A second quote was given to add the vehicle to Mrs Js multi-
car policy.
Mrs J complained to Admiral. She said shed not been told during the original phone  call that 
the price would increase when her daughters licence changed from provisional to full. She 
said shed relied  on the first quote  when deciding to purchase her daughters  car. She said 
she wanted Admiral  to honour  the first quote  (for £890) itd given her. 
Admiral looked into Mrs Js complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  It said its agent  
had failed to read out the part of the script relating to the increase in price that would occur 
when her daughters  licence changed.  It apologised for the inconvenience  itd caused Mrs J 
for which it offered  to pay her compensation of £50. It also said that the quote it had given 
her based  on a full licence  hadnt been  wrong. It said this was because  its statistics showed 
that new manual  car drivers are higher risk than those with a provisional  licence. But it said it 
would honour  the original  quote for the time Mrs Js daughter held a provisional licence. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Mrs J complained  to this service. Our 
adjudicator investigated her complaint  and recommended it was upheld. He said Admirals 
error meant she lost the opportunity to properly consider  her financial position prior to 
making a new financial  commitment in the form of buying a new car. He said ultimately,     
Mrs J had been able to add her daughter  to her multi-car policy for approximately  £50 more 
than the original quote. So he thought Admiral should pay her a further £50 making the total 
compensation £100.
Admiral disagreed with our adjudicators  recommendation  so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By its own admission,  Admiral made  a mistake during the initial call with Mrs J in January 
2019. Its offered  to pay her compensation of £50 in acknowledgement of the inconvenience 
Ref: DRN95662442its error caused Mrs J. I dont think that £50 is quite enough though,  given all the 
circumstances. 
I know that Mrs J says she went out and spent £4,000 on a car for her daughter straight  after 
obtaining Admirals  original quote  (based on her daughter holding a provisional licence). But 
Ive not seen any evidence that she wouldve acted differently if shed received the full 
information from Admiral during that call. And I understand  that when her daughter did pass 
her test, Mrs J was able to add her daughters vehicle  to her own multi-car policy  for 
approximately £50 more  than the original  amount  quoted by Admiral.  
The quote  Admiral  gave Mrs J after her daughter passed her test was correct  at the time. 
Admirals error was that it failed to tell Mrs J that the premium would increase once her 
daughter passed  her test and moved to a full manual licence, not that the price  ultimately  
quoted was in any way incorrectly calculated.  
Admiral has explained  why there is such a difference in price  between a provisional and a 
fully qualified driver.  Its said that its statistics show that newly qualified drivers present a 
higher risk  and so attract a higher premium  than learner drivers. It said this could be 
because learner drivers must have a qualified driver in the car with them at all times were  as 
a newly  qualified driver is solely responsible for the vehicle. Admiral  said the additional 
premium it charges reflects the increased risk it is being asked to take on. 
I cant tell Admiral what price it needs  to charge  to cover the risk of insuring Mrs Js 
daughter. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there  is of her needing to 
make a claim and its wider commercial requirements. What  this service  can do though,  
when a consumer  complains about  the price they have been charged, is look at whether the 
insurer has treated the consumer fairly  and whether it can explain why its charged the price 
it has. We can then explain to the consumer  that weve  checked  the price  theyve been 
charged and are satisfied  that theyve been treated  fairly  and in line with the way that the 
insurer has treated all its other customers with similar risk profiles. 
I think Admiral  has fairly explained  why its charged Mrs J more to insure her newly qualified 
daughter more than when  she was learning. So I think its shown that she has been treated 
fairly and in the same way as it would  any other  newly qualified drivers.  I dont think  that 
compensation of £50 fairly reflects the trouble  and upset  the lack of full information  caused 
Mrs J. I can see she had to pay more that she thought she would need to to insure  her 
daughters car. I think that total compensation of £100 more  fairly reflects the inconvenience  
she was caused.  
If Admiral has paid Mrs J £50 already  it need  only pay her a further £50. If it hasnt then it 
needs to pay her £100.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mrs J total compensation of £100,  as explained above, for the inconvenience 
it caused her. 
Ref: DRN95662443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9566244