K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Ms C has with National Westminster 
Bank Plc. Ms C is unhappy that NatWest didnt tell her that shed not paid her mortgage for 
eight months, and instead it used her previous overpayments  to cover the missed amounts 
which she says is a breach of contract.
background
Ms C has a BTL mortgage  with NatWest and since 2016 Ms C has been paying  her 
mortgage by standing order (rather than direct  debit). 
In January 2018 she arranged to move her mortgage onto a new interest  rate with effect 
from March 2018  but forgot to set up a new standing order to make  her monthly payments 
from April 2018.
As Ms C had an accumulated overpayment on her mortgage  NatWest  used that to cover the 
mortgage from April 2018 until November 2018.  But when that ran out NatWest wrote to 
Ms C on 22 November 2018 to say shed underpaid her mortgage.
Ms C did nothing about that until she phoned  NatWest on 9 January 2019. She then made  a 
payment to cover December and the part of November that hadnt been covered by the 
accumulated overpayment balance. She then made a further payment on 10 January to 
cover her payment due that month.
Unhappy with what had happened Ms C complained to NatWest.  It said it had made a 
mistake in how it dealt with Ms Cs overpayments  as those shouldnt have been  available  to 
be used to cover the missing payments. It said, because the overpayments  had been used, 
an automatic arrears letter wasnt generated until November when the overpayments had 
been depleted. It offered to cover the first three missed payments (a total amounting to 
£3,214.26 plus interest  adjustments) and said Ms C should have noticed by then that shed 
not been paying her mortgage. It also offered £10.80 towards Ms Cs call costs and £350 
compensation.
Our investigator thought that offer was fair in the circumstances and didnt recommend 
NatWest do anything more. Ms C didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Ms C wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
The Financial Ombudsman  Service is independent and impartial. What  this means is that we 
dont represent  either  party, and I dont  act under eithers instructions or take directions on 
how a complaint will be looked at and what points  should be considered. For that reason I 
wont be answering Ms Cs points about whether  or not NatWest  breached  the contract. If 
Ref: DRN98304872Ms C feels  NatWest has breached its contract  with her then thats a matter  for the courts. My 
roles to look at whats fair and reasonable.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our terms of reference to comment  on, or 
otherwise determine,  how financial businesses operate in general terms. My role is to look at 
whats gone wrong, and put consumers back (as far as possible) in the position  theyd be in 
if things hadnt  gone wrong. I can also award a sum in recognition  of any distress  or 
inconvenience caused. I cant fine or punish a business, and any award I make wont  be 
punitive.
NatWest has admitted it made a mistake here. NatWest said it shouldnt have used the 
overpayments to cover the mortgage payments Ms C missed, and had that not happened it 
would have written  to Ms C sooner. Ms C has understandably focussed on that issue, and 
has said that NatWest  should  therefore  cover all her eight missed  payments (not just the first 
three). 
But I do need to bear in mind that this is a commercial enterprise - that is, its a BTL property 
- rather  than an individual customers  residential mortgage, hence not subject to regulation. 
The onus is on a business customer (as Ms C is here)  to actively manage  their commercial 
enterprise. So a business customer - as part of managing that commercial  enterprise - 
should ensure  they keep track of, and pay, their business  bills (in this case the mortgage).  
Its a very different relationship from that which a lender has with a residential customer.
Ms C controlled her mortgage payments (rather than NatWest calling for them as it would 
with a direct  debit) and it was Ms C that didnt have a standing order  set up. Ms C had over 
£1,000 extra in her bank  account every month, a sum in excess of £8,500  after the eight 
months. NatWest wrote  to Ms C about it on 22 November 2018, but Ms C didnt  contact 
NatWest until 9 January  2019 - some  seven weeks later - which was after another payment 
had been missed in December  2018. And then, despite Ms C telling NatWest on 9 January 
that shed re-set up her standing order,  she failed  to do so and therefore  missed her 
February payment.
Whilst its not an excuse,  NatWest is a big company with a lot of customers, so if something 
falls through the gaps theres not going to be an individual person that would be aware of it, 
nor would it be flagged  up. In contrast Ms C had plenty  of opportunities to notice that shed 
not paid her mortgage.
NatWest has already admitted it made a mistake, so I dont need to make a finding on what  
happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. What I need to decide  is whether the offer made  by NatWest 
is fair, or whether further compensation is warranted.
Normally with a complaint like this Id say the fair outcome is for the consumer to pay a sum 
equivalent to all the missed payments as a lump sum, and then the business should  
backdate each of those  to the date they should have been made. That would put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in had nothing  gone wrong. Here I cant do 
that as Ms C admitted to NatWest in February 2019 that she didnt have the funds available  
to pay the missed payments as a lump  sum.  Instead  NatWest made a much better offer in 
that it covered  the first three missed payments itself; thats not something  it had to do, and 
its not something I would  have ordered it to do in this specific case. So having  considered  
everything Im satisfied the offer is more than reasonable.  
Ref: DRN98304873my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9830487