K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss M says Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
M&S had to make it clear that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she had to agree to 
take it out. Miss M says she never asked for the insurance. Where there are disputes such 
as this I need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened.
M&S no longer  has a copy of the application form Miss M completed at the time of the sale  
which isnt surprising considering this took place over 15 years  ago. But it has provided me 
with an example of an application form which it says was being used at the time of the sale.  
On the form there is a section about  PPI and I can see the form requires the applicant  to tick 
a box and sign in the section to confirm that the PPI is required. Without persuasive 
evidence to make me think otherwise, I think this form is likely to be the same as the one 
completed by Miss M at the time.
Ive also been  given extracts from M&S  internal systems showing the breakdown  of charges 
made to Miss Ms card. I can see that a separate charge for the PPI is shown on each  of the 
credit card statements.  If Miss M hadnt  agreed to take out the PPI or didnt know what  this 
charge was for, I think  she would have questioned this with M&S  sooner than she did.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think its more likely  that M&S made it clear 
the policy was optional and Miss M chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she 
didnt want it.
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make  sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide  for herself if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information M&S  gave Miss M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
Ive thought about everything else Miss M has said  including  what she has said about not 
needing the policy as she had sick pay and savings she could have  used. But this policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay. It would also have paid out until Miss M 
Ref: DRN95719442returned to work or the final balance  was repaid  which ever came  first  so it may have 
paid out for longer than she would  have received her contracted  sick pay. And by having this 
policy it would have  enabled her to protect  any savings she did have for another  purpose  or 
use them  to help pay other living costs. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9571944