K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited  failed to update  her details 
on its system  and continued  to send documents to her old address between  2016 and 2019.
background
Mrs K told Police mutual about her change  of address in 2016. However she says it failed to 
update its records  properly with the result that it wrote  to her at her old address  more than 7 
times between 2016 and March 2019,  including personal information detailing  her current 
address and information about her accounts.
Mrs K says shed moved from her previous address  due to an incident involving one of her 
neighbours and was very upset to find that her personal information  had been disclosed.
She says Police  Mutual agreed  it had made  a mistake and offered her £250  for her distress.  
Mrs K doesnt agree  this is enough  to reflect the upset and worry and the amount of 
information thats been disclosed. She feels  it could have  done more to contact  her when it 
realised that she hadnt  replied to the various letters sent out or cashed  the cheque  for a 
refund that had been sent.
Police Mutual said in 2016 it had updated Mrs Ks address on its savings platform  but not all 
parts of the system had been updated so that it continued to send letters  and information  to 
her old address. This included savings documents, a change  of address confirmation, and 
an overpayment refund. It also agreed  that Mrs K had called in twice  in 2017 to discuss her 
account but that the call handlers hadnt noticed  that the address was incorrect  and it wasnt  
until March 2019  when the problem  was identified. 
Police Mutual said it had now amended Mrs Ks details  on its system, informed the 
Information Commissioners Office  and provided additional training for its staff.  It 
acknowledged that what had happened had been very upsetting for Mrs K and it offered her 
£250 for this and the inconvenience.
Our investigator said Police  Mutual  accepted it had made an error in 2016 when updating 
Mrs Ks details  on its system and so post continued to be sent to the wrong address. In view 
of the sensitivity of Mrs Ks work she could understand  why she was worried her personal  
information might have been disclosed but there was nothing to show this had happened so 
we couldnt ask Police Mutual to compensate her for this. Police Mutual had acknowledged 
the mistake, apologised and offered Mrs K compensation for her upset and in the 
circumstances our investigator felt this was reasonable. 
Our investigator acknowledged  Mrs K didnt feel £250 was sufficient  but it was in line with 
what wed usually expect  a business  to pay for these sorts  of issues. On that basis  she felt it 
was fair and as Police Mutual had agreed  the offer was still open, she wouldnt be asking it 
to do anything more.  
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN95603842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to broadly the 
same conclusions as our investigator  although  I have made a change  to the compensation 
as Ill now explain.
Theres no doubt Police Mutual  made  a mistake  when Mrs K asked it to update her details 
on its system  in 2016. Its explained that only part of the database was updated with the 
result that, until March 2019, letters  and documents were still being  sent to Mrs Ks old 
address. It seems the problem was in part a particular  issue  with its systems  and, in part, 
user error. 
Its not for us to tell Police Mutual  how to manage  its systems as thats a commercial  
decision for the business. But I can look at the way its dealt with the complaint and if the 
steps its taken to resolve it are reasonable.
In this case Police Mutual has acknowledged  its mistake and made  a referral to the ICO as 
well as undertaking internal training. It doesnt resolve Mrs Ks problem but, on a practical 
basis, I dont think there  was much more  it could have done  to avoid this type of problem 
happening again. 
In view of what happened, however, Id agree that Police Mutual should also compensate 
Mrs K for her trouble and upset. The question is what  would be a fair award.
Mrs Ks been very clear about the nature of her work and why she has to be so careful about 
her confidentiality. Shes also upset  that it took so long to identify the issue despite  her 
failure to reply to any of the various letters or her failure to cash the refund  cheque sent to 
her. She points  out that even though she called Police Mutual twice in 2017 the mistake 
wasnt identified until 2019.
I can understand why Mrs K was concerned but Ive seen  nothing to show that anyone else 
has opened her mail so I cant reasonably ask Police Mutual to compensate her for this. 
However Ive taken into account  that this mistake  continued for almost three years and that 
during this time Police  Mutual had a number  of opportunities to spot the mistake  and put it 
right. Ive also taken  note of the confidential nature of the documents that were  sent out and 
the particular impact that this may have had for Mrs K because of her own individual 
circumstances.  Having  done so Ive come  to the view that £250 doesnt  properly reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her as a result  of what happened  and Ive therefore 
decided to increase  the compensation to £375.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited to pay Mrs K £375 
for her distress  and inconvenience resulting from its mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9560384