K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the handling of his account  by Capquest Debt Recovery  Limited 
(CDR).
background
Mr A says he wrote to CDR  in June  2010 offering to pay £25 per month for five years, on the 
basis that he wouldnt incur any further  interest and after five years his account would be 
finished. He says CDR sent him its bank details  and didnt  tell him it disagreed with his 
proposal, so he took this to mean  it had agreed. He says on this basis  he paid it £25 per 
month for the next five years. And he says after five years he tried to get CDR to honour  the 
agreement, but it declined.  
So, Mr A says he wants it to accept that he doesnt  need to make any further payments. 
CDR says it can confirm  Mr As payment arrangement was agreed and put in place, but it 
didnt respond  to his comment  about  only paying  the account for five years and then it would 
be finished. And it says it apologises that this aspect of his letter wasnt addressed.
CDR also says it didnt  agree to Mr As account  being cleared off after the five years.  So, it 
says, whilst it shouldve responded to this point back in 2010,  its unable to agree  that it 
confirmed this would take place.
In addition, CDR says its asked Mr A to complete  an income and expenditure form, to make 
sure it can take his circumstances into consideration, if he wishes it to, when managing  his 
account.
Our adjudicator thought Mr As complaint  should  be partly upheld  and CDR should pay him 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
CDR didnt respond  to the adjudicators  conclusions. So, the matters been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr As complaint,  and to require CDR to pay him £200 
compensation. Ill explain why.
I see when Mr A wrote to CDR in June  2010,  it didnt reply.  So he wrote to it again  in July 
2010 and said hed work on the assumption it was in full agreement  with his proposal and he 
enclosed a cheque  for £25 as the payment for July. And he also asked for its bank details so 
he could set up a monthly  standing order.
I also see CDR responded in September 2010 and said it accepted Mr As offer to pay £25 
per month. But the letter didnt  say whether or not it agreed Mr As debt would be settled 
after five years of £25 payments.
Ref: DRN98400462Im satisfied CDR had simply agreed Mr A could pay £25 per month on an on-going basis  in 
the letter Ive referred  to. But I think  it shouldve responded more  promptly to the letter Mr A 
sent it about this matter  in June 2010. And when it did it shouldve  made  it clear  that it didnt  
agree his debt would be discharged if he paid this amount each month for five years. 
I can understand why Mr A thought  all aspects of his offer had been  accepted.  I can also 
understand why he was shocked to discover  five years later that his account hadnt been 
settled and that hed have  to continue paying  his debt.
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account  I think its fair and reasonable for me to require 
CDR to pay Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced 
as a result  of its poor handling of this matter. And I partly uphold his complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint  against Capquest Debt Recovery Limited. It must pay him £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  he experienced as a result of its poor 
handling of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9840046