K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt  with his buy-to-let 
(BTL) mortgage. In particular, he says that Barclays actions have  left him in severe financial 
difficulty. Mr K says that Barclays review panel has refused  to provide him with a decision 
about splitting  the title. Mr K also says Barclays is wrong to treat his mortgage  as being in 
arrears.
background
In 2012 Mr K took out a BTL mortgage through Barclays. He borrowed £243,750 on an 
interest-only basis over a term of 25 years. The secured property  is a house. In 2015  Mr K 
converted the property into two flats, intending to live in one and rent out the other.  He 
needed Barclays to agree to the title to the property  being split. 
Before agreeing to this, Barclays  required  the mortgage to be reduced to £225,000. Mr K 
wanted the difference to be assigned  to the other flat so he could either  sell or remortgage it. 
Barclays said Mr K would need to make  a formal application for this, so that the bank could 
assess affordability.
Since 2015 there has been detailed correspondence between  Mr K and Barclays about this 
matter. The events which culminated in this complaint  have arisen from a letter sent by 
Barclays to Mr K on 18 December 2017. Barclays asked Mr K to supply additional 
information, as follows:
full particulars of his income  and expenditure so Barclays  could consider affordability  
in respect of Mr Ks current circumstances;
a copy of the full planning permission granted when converting  the property into two 
flats;
the building regulations consent granted by the local authority for the conversion;
a full, up-to-date structural survey  and valuation.
Barclays also suggested Mr K might want to take some independent financial advice.
Since, December 2017 there have been  further  discussions with Barclays.  But the 
information Barclays requested has not been provided and so the matter has reached a 
stalemate.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. He had numerous concerns about Barclays actions over 
the years. Barclays didnt  consent to us looking at some of those issues.  
On 29 May 2019 an ombudsman  issued a decision explaining that the only issues  that had 
been brought to us within the time limits  in our rules were:
Mr Ks complaint that Barclays review panel has failed to provide him with a decision 
about splitting  the title to the property;
that Barclays has wrongly said his mortgage  is in arrears.
An investigator looked at these two issues. He didnt recommend  the complaint should  be 
upheld. He was satisfied Barclays was entitled to request information about the property and 
about Dr Ks financial circumstances to enable it to consider  his request to split the title.
Ref: DRN90419832The investigator was also satisfied that Mr K hadnt  made all the required payments to his 
mortgage, so Barclays  was entitled to treat it as being in arrears.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. Hes reiterated all the points hes previously made,  but has provided no new 
evidence or arguments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint,  or because its something I cant consider 
because its out of jurisdiction. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues Im able to look at, and on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. And 
it ensures that I wont be side-tracked by matters which,  although presented as material,  are, 
in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader 
outcome.
Ive read the jurisdiction  decision  issued by my colleague on 29 May 2019 in which she 
explains which parts  of the complaint  we can consider and which are out of time. For the 
record, I agree with her decision, and so I will not be revisiting the issue  of jurisdiction again. 
Instead I will confine my findings  to those issues I am able to consider:
Mr Ks complaint that Barclays review panel has failed to provide him with a decision 
about splitting  the title to the property;
that Barclays has wrongly said his mortgage  is in arrears.
splitting the title:  The property offered as security  for the mortgage was a freehold house. 
The property has now been  converted into two flats, which I am satisfied is in breach of the 
mortgage conditions.  Barclays is willing  to consider splitting the title, but it can only do so if 
Mr K provides information to enable the bank to give proper consideration to his request.
I dont think Barclays is being unfair  in this regard. The information the bank has requested 
is, in my opinion, reasonable. Barclays is entitled  to be satisfied that if it is being asked to 
lend on two flats rather than one house,  that there is planning permission and building  
regulations consent  for the conversion. 
Planning applications are in the public domain, and I have looked at the information on the 
local authoritys planning  portal for this property. Having done  so, I think Barclays  is 
legitimately entitled  to ask Mr K to satisfy the bank that he has obtained planning  permission 
Ref: DRN90419833and building regulations consent for the conversion  of the property. Im also satisfied that its 
reasonable for Barclays to ask Mr K to provide a full structural valuation of the property.
I also think Barclays is acting reasonably in asking Mr K to provide  information about his 
income and expenditures. Splitting the title involves  a material  change to the security. 
Barclays is entitled to determine whether or not it is prepared to lend where the property  has 
been substantially  altered  from the original security. And the bank is allowed to ask for 
information about Mr Ks finances and require him to make a formal application before it will 
consider any change to the original mortgage.
arrears: Ive looked at the payment history for the account. From about November 2016 the 
full contractual  payments were  not being met in full. No payment has been made to the 
account since July 2018. In the circumstances, Barclays is entitled to treat the account as 
being in arrears.
conclusion: For the reasons given above, Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate this 
decision doesnt cover  all the points Mr K brought to us, but as Ive explained, another  
ombudsman has already decided that the other parts of his complaint had been brought  too 
late for us to look at.
Barclays has held off taking legal action pending the outcome  of this complaint. Even though 
Mr K says he is living in the property  (in breach of the mortgage conditions), this Is not a 
residential mortgage. Consequently  Barclays isnt required to follow the Pre-Action Protocol 
for Possession Claims based  on Mortgage  or Home Purchase Plan Arrears in Respect of 
Residential Property  before  taking any court action. 
I must emphasise to Mr K the seriousness  of the situation he is now in. If he is unable to 
bring the mortgage account up to date,  Barclays may decide  to apply to court for a 
possession order. The courts powers  to suspend possession on a BTL mortgage are very 
limited. 
And if conversion of the property into two flats has been carried  out without planning 
consent, Barclays may consider there to have been  a material  breach of the mortgage  
contract, and take action accordingly.  That, of course, is a matter for Barclays to decide. But 
it would  be remiss of me if I didnt point  out to Mr K that he needs to satisfy  Barclays that the 
conversion has full approval  of the local authority.
I think it may assist Mr K to take legal advice  from a qualified  solicitor about the mortgage 
arrears, as well as advice  from a planning  consultant about obtaining the appropriate  local 
authority consents  for the alterations to the property. If Mr K does, in fact, have planning and 
building regulations consents,  he should supply these to Barclays  as soon as possible.
The Law Society  will be able to refer Mr K to a solicitor  in his area, and Planning Portal 
(planningportal.co.uk) will be able to direct Mr K to a planning consultant.
If Mr K is experiencing financial difficulty,  he may want  to speak to one of the free debt 
advice services such as StepChange,  Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide Mr K with 
contact details for those  organisations, if hed like us to.
Ref: DRN90419834my final decision
I know Mr K will be disappointed, but for the reasons given above, my decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9041983