K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined  his missed departure travel  insurance 
claim. My references to AXA include its agents.
background
Mr K was on holiday abroad. He says the bus from his hotel  to get to the airport  to catch  his 
flight home stopped  half way and everyone had to leave the bus. There was a language 
barrier and everyone was confused but he assumes  the bus had broken down. 
Mr K got a taxi but arrived at the airport too late to catch his booked flight. He had to buy a 
new flight for later that day. He claimed for the costs of the new flight and the taxi.
AXA declined the claim. It hadnt received confirmation  from the bus provider that the bus 
had broken down,  so it said there  was no cover  under the policy.
Mr K complained to us. He said he couldnt get the bus providers on-line or phone contact 
details and hed given AXA all the information  he could. Hed suggested other verification 
methods to AXA; a bank  statement showing him at the airport or it contacting the hotel to 
verify hed checked  out in enough time to catch  the booked flight.  
Our investigator thought AXA had fairly declined the claim.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He says its not possible for him to 
contact the bus provider to get a report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide if AXA fairly and reasonably declined Mr Ks claim, and I think  it did. I dont 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
The policy could cover Mr Ks situation  if theres a failure of public  transport, in his case  the 
bus. 
But the policy is clear  that AXA needs  a letter from the public transport provider detailing the 
reasons for failure to support a missed  departure claim.
It's very frustrating for Mr K if he cant contact the bus provider to get the information to 
support his claim. Hes suggested other  evidence  AXA could get. But even if AXA got 
evidence from the hotel that Mr K left in good  time to get to the airport and his bank 
statement showed him at the airport later than his booked flight that still wouldnt give AXA 
the evidence it wants. AXA wants evidence from an independent source  that Mr K missed 
his booked flight because  his bus broke  down.
Its reasonable for AXA to want independent evidence  about the cause of the missed 
departure. The same or similar requirement  will be in most,  if not all, travel insurance 
policies.
Ref: DRN96130442Without the relevant evidence from the bus provider AXA fairly and reasonably  declined  the 
claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613044