K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund £35,000 of payments made from 
his account to an online gambling website,  that he says he didnt authorise.  Mr T also complains 
that NatWest blocked and closed his account. He says this caused him problems paying  bills and 
affected his credit rating. Mr T wants NatWest to refund  the disputed  transactions and redress  for 
the way they handled  the closure of his account. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision
In my provisional decision I explained  why of thought this complaint should be upheld in part. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.  
NatWest responded  setting out that it accepts my provisional decision. Mr T didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T and NatWest  havent made  any more  comments, or offered any more  evidence, my 
findings about this complaint havent  changed. 
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about  the disputed transactions . Im not 
persuaded that the gambling  transactions were carried out by someone other than Mr T or 
by someone without his authority. And so I dont recommend that NatWest needs to do 
anything further  or refund  the transactions he disputes. I also dont uphold Mr Ts complaint 
about NatWest closing his account. 
I uphold Mr Ts complaint about the return of his funds. NatWest decided  to block and close  
Mr Ts account  on 28 December 2017, which meant from this date Mr T wasnt able to 
access the money in his account. But NatWest didnt release Mr Ts balance  to him until 7 
February 2018. 
Ive listened to several phone calls Mr T made  to NatWest to try and find out what was 
happening. In particular calls he made  in January 2018, when NatWest told him they were  
reviewing his account and to call back in a couple of weeks. But NatWest didnt ask Mr T for 
any information about his account.  During  this call Mr T told NatWest he had no money to 
pay his bills including his car tax, car insurance and rent. Mr T did as NatWest asked and 
called back again.  However, he wasnt told when he could have his money  released. 
Prior to issuing my provisional decision I asked NatWest for an explanation  why it took them  
until February 2018 to release Mr Ts money to him. But I havent been  provided with any 
information except  that at the time NatWest were unable to transfer  Mr Ts balance to 
another account.
Ref: DRN91674782I can see that this issue  has had an impact on Mr T and caused him trouble and upset. I say 
this because Mr T has provided us with evidence that he was unable to pay his bills. Mr Ts 
bank account  was frozen for just over six weeks. That would have had an impact  on almost  
anyone. In this case  I dont  think  NatWest  did enough to listen to what Mr T was telling them 
or let Mr T know what evidence he could provide about the money in his account  so that it 
could be released.  And I cant see they took any steps to move  things forward until February  
2018. 
Overall, I consider that the circumstances here are such  that Mr T is entitled  to some 
compensation for trouble  and upset. So I think NatWest should  pay Mr T £350 compensation 
for what took place.  I think that amount fairly  reflects the level of distress and inconvenience  
caused to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  this complaint. And direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr T £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
taking too long to return his money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91674783Copy provision decision  of 23 July  2019
complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund £35,000 of payments made from his 
account to an online  gambling website, that he says he didnt authorise. Mr T also complains that NatWest  
blocked and closed his account. He says this caused him problems paying  bills and affected his credit rating. 
Mr T wants NatWest to refund the disputed transactions and redress  for the way they handled the closure of 
his account.  
background
Mr T had a current account with NatWest. Mr T has explained that on 2 December 2017, he went to a 
barber shop to get his hair cut. Whilst he was there his coat was put in the shops cloakroom. Mr T 
says that his mobile phone and wallet  containing  his bank card were inside his coat pocket.
Mr T says his phone was logged into a betting site, which  he regularly used to bet on sporting  events. 
At the end of his appointment, Mr T says staff returned his coat to him. He then paid and left the shop.  
Around thirty minutes after leaving the shop, Mr T says he realised his mobile  phone  was missing. So 
he went back  to the barbers to see if hed left it there. When he got back  to the shop, his phone was 
handed to him from behind the shops reception desk.
Mr T says once hed recovered  his phone he noticed hed received a number of text messages from 
NatWest asking him to confirm hed authorised four recent  transactions to the betting website. Mr T 
says he wasnt aware of the transactions and he replied to the text messages immediately to let 
NatWest know he hadnt authorised them. 
The following timeline  for what happened  on 2 December 2017  has been compiled  using the internet 
banking log for Mr Ts account and the transaction history:
Date Time/activity Amount Card ending
Device
02/12/2017 16:51 Someone logged into 
online banking via 
Mr Ts NatWest Mobile 
banking appNatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 16:52 transaction to betting 
site£6,000 5926 NatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 16:56 Someone logged into 
online banking via Mr Ts 
NatWest Mobile  banking  appNatWest mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:02 Someone logged into 
online banking via 
Mr Ts NatWest  Mobile 
banking appNatWest mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:03 transaction to betting 
site£10,000 5926 NatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:11 Someone logged into 
online banking via 
Mr Ts NatWest  Mobile 
banking app NatWest Mobile banking app
Ref: DRN9167478402/12/2017 17:25 Someone logged into 
online banking via 
Mr Ts NatWest  Mobile 
banking appNatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:25 transaction to betting 
site£4,000 5926 NatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:25 Someone logged into 
online banking via Mr Ts 
NatWest  Mobile  banking 
appNatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:29 Someone logged into 
online banking via Mr Ts 
NatWest  Mobile  banking 
appNatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:48 Someone logged into 
online banking via Mr Ts 
NatWest  Mobile  banking 
appNatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:51 transaction to betting 
site£15,000 5926 NatWest Mobile banking app
02/12/2017 17:59 Someone logged into 
online banking via 
Mr Ts NatWest  Mobile 
banking appNatWest Mobile banking app
Mr T believes his mobile phone, which  he usually  locks, and which  was logged into his gambling  
account, was accessed by an unknown third party. And thats how these transactions occurred.  Mr T 
says he didnt  report the matter to police because he says NatWest told him it would  refund the 
transactions. 
Mr Ts use of the betting  site 
The investigator contacted the merchant for information about the disputed  transactions. It confirmed 
that the gambling account  used to make the bets belonged to Mr T. It also confirmed that the betting 
undertaken on the disputed transactions was on the type of event Mr T usually  bets on. 
The merchant also explained that its possible for a customer to keep the gambling  app remained 
logged in so they dont have  to provide a unique username, password or code each time.
Mr T confirmed  that he had saved his bank card details  into the merchant app. And that hed used it 
previously on a number of occasions. Ive seen Mr Ts bank  statements and these  show that hed 
made a number of genuine high value  transfers to the merchant in the months preceding the disputed  
ones.
access to NatWest mobile banking  app 
NatWest has confirmed that customers can access online banking via its mobile banking app. And its 
explained that to do so a customer has to enter either a six digit passcode, or use fingerprint  or facial 
identification. Mr T told the investigator that he hadnt disclosed any of his online banking information  
to anyone else.  And that he believes he left his mobile  banking app logged in when he wasnt in 
possession of his mobile phone.
NatWests response to the complaint
Ref: DRN91674785Mr T complained about  NatWests decision  to decline his claim. NatWest explained that it wouldnt be 
refunding the transactions because:
as part of its fraud investigation it had contacted the merchant and it had confirmed that all the 
personal details it held matched the information NatWest had for Mr T;
Mr Ts genuine gambling account had been used to make the transactions;
the same device (mobile phone) and IP address had been used to make the disputed  
transactions as well as previous genuine transactions and online  banking log ins
A review of Mr Ts account statements over the past two years showed Mr T had a history of 
online gambling  with the same  merchant and had made regular payments to the merchant 
which hes not disputing. He also received regular  credits  from the merchant;
there would be no financial gain for a fraudster to make the transactions as any winnings 
would go back into Mr Ts account;  and
the mobile banking app is accessed via a six digit passcode, fingerprint  or facial identification.
NatWest decided to close Mr Ts bank account and informed him on 28 December  2017 giving him 14 
day notice to make alternative banking  arrangements. It also apologised for sending Mr T a text 
message telling him it would refund him. It said this was an error in its system  which  it was working to 
resolve.
our investigators  view
Our investigator didnt think the evidence  supported Mr Ts version of events. On balance she thought 
it was likely Mr T had authorised the disputed transactions.  She said this because:
the account usage  didnt  seem like it would  be done by a fraudster  because  the fraudster 
wouldnt have been able to benefit from the bets as any winnings wouldve been allocated to 
Mr Ts betting account;
the disputed transactions were made using  the same device Mr T previously used with the 
merchant to make similar  transactions;
there were nine separate online  banking  logins on 2 December 2017 between  4.51pm and 
5.59pm. So the person using the mobile  banking app had to be aware  of the login  details to 
be able to access  the app each occasion they logged into the app;
Mr T hadnt disclosed his online banking  details to anyone else;  and 
she also said that NatWest hadnt  treated  Mr T unfairly when it decided to block and close his 
account.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at everything. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out what Ive identified  as the relevant considerations  to deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.  Of particular  relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009 (the PSRs 2009)  
which apply to transfers  like the ones made from Mr Ts account. Among other things the PSRs 2009 
say:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent  to
Ref: DRN91674786(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
60. (1) Where a payment  service user
(a)denies  having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed, it is for the payment 
service provider  to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, accurately  
recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and not affected  by a 
technical breakdown or some other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment service 
provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its personalised  security 
features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, the 
use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider  is not in itself necessarily 
sufficient to prove  that
(a)the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; 
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised  or incorrectly  executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment  transaction  was not authorised  in accordance with 
regulation 55, the payment  service provider  must immediately
(a)refund the amount  of the unauthorised  payment transaction to the payer; and
(b)where applicable,  restore  the debited payment  account to the state it would have been in had 
the unauthorised payment transaction  not taken place.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account. These set out that NatWest can close 
Mr Ts account immediately under certain circumstances. And by giving him 60 days notice.
Taking all the relevant considerations into account, including those set out above, my consideration  
about whats fair and reasonable in this case must first address whether the disputed transactions  
were authorised by Mr T.
Mr T says he must have left his gambling app logged  in on his phone, and he thinks this is how 
someone was able to make  the bets.  
In order  for what Mr T thinks happened to be possible, someone would  have had to gain access  to his 
phone, which hes said he usually locks, quickly  and before it locked automatically. They would then 
have had to access the gambling app, made the bets and, throughout  the time they were making  the 
bets, they would have needed to guess Mr Ts NatWest banking app log in details so that they could 
log in to his banking multiple times. Given that I dont know how long Mr Ts phone  would have 
remained unlocked during  a period of inactivity in his coat pocket, I accept its possible someone 
gained access to Mr Ts phone  before it automatically  locked. So Ive gone on to consider how likely  it 
is that someone with access to the mobile phone device  made the bets and logged  in to mobile  
banking.
online gambling transactions
The disputed gambling transactions themselves dont look particularly  unusual. What I mean  by this is 
that they are similar to previous genuine  gambling activity that Mr T has carried out. I can see from 
Ref: DRN91674787looking at Mr Ts current account statements that in the previous  month Mr T spent in excess  of 
£40,000 on the same  merchant gambling website. For example, I can see that on 27 and 28 
November 2017 Mr T authorised two transactions of £4,000. And on 30 November 2017,  he 
authorised another  transaction of £5,000. The bets were also similar in nature to Mr Ts genuine 
activity, involving a sport  he regularly gambles on.
Ive also kept in mind  that there would be no financial gain for someone other than Mr T to place the 
bets which  Mr T disputes. Any profits from winning bets would have been paid directly into Mr Ts 
betting account,  and transferring that money into a bank account would not have been instant. Taking 
all of this into account I think its unlikely the disputed  activity  it was carried out by a third party.
online banking account
The investigator also found that Mr Ts online banking had been accessed during the time that the 
disputed transactions occurred. But Mr T also told us no-one had access  to his log in details. 
Ive considered the possibility that Mr T had left himself logged in to his online banking on his mobile 
phone. But if someone had taken his unlocked  mobile phone and found his mobile  banking app open,  
I think  its unlikely that theyd only check his balance. Mr T had a balance  of more than £6,000 on the 
day of the disputed transactions and yet the third party didnt attempt to make any transactions or 
carry out any other activity. Again this doesnt look like the activity of an unauthorised person 
accessing Mr Ts bank account. 
Ive also noted that Mr Ts online banking  was accessed on nine separate  occasions between 4.51pm  
and 5.59pm. And, significantly, in between the times the bets were being placed. On each occasion 
Mr Ts online banking information would have been needed to be entered  to gain access to his 
banking app. NatWest has told us that access to Mr Ts online banking via its mobile app is gained 
through entering a six digit passcode, fingerprint or facial identification. And Mr T has confirmed that 
he hasnt shared any of his login details with a third party. This strongly  suggests  that the phone was 
in Mr Ts possession during  the time that the disputed transactions took place. So Im not persuaded  
on balance, considering  all the evidence, that someone other than Mr T had access  to his mobile 
phone at this time.
In summary, the disputed transactions took place from an online gambling account  that Mr T already 
used. The transactions fit Mr Ts pattern of spending and activity and there isnt anything  unusual 
about the transactions. The multiple banking  app logins  suggest  that Mr T had his phone at the time 
of the disputed  transactions and, as Ive said, there would be no financial gain for someone other than 
Mr T to place the bets.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, on balance, Im not persuaded  that the gambling transactions  
were carried  out by someone  other than Mr T or by someone without his authority. And so I dont 
recommend that NatWest  needs to do anything further or refund the transactions he disputes. 
account blocks  and closure
Mr T says because his account  was blocked he was unable to pay his rent, and wasnt able to buy 
food. Mr T also says his direct  debits werent paid which affected his credit rating. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, just as a customer may close an account with 
a bank. But before a bank closes an account,  it must do so in a way, which is fair and complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms  and conditions of Mr Ts accounts confirm NatWest can close the account immediately in 
certain circumstances. I think, considering what happened in this case, its fair and reasonable  
NatWest took the action  it did. I can see that NatWest wrote to Mr T on 28 December 2017  to let him 
know it was closing  his account. And it gave  Mr T 14 days to make alternative banking arrangements. 
When NatWest wrote to Mr T to let him know it had decided to close his account it also told him that:
Ref: DRN91674788Access to your account  has been  stopped meaning the following will happen. 
any cards/chequebooks/pay in book will be cancelled
access to online banking and the mobile app will be cancelled
withdrawal of any overdraft facilities on your account
cancel all standing  order(s) and direct debit(s) authorities  on your account(s) 
You wont be able to use the Account Switching Service  to transfer your account  to 
another bank.
So whilst I appreciate Mr Ts direct debits werent paid,  and this caused him difficulty, Im satisfied 
NatWest made  Mr T aware he needed to make alternative banking arrangements, and it complied 
with the terms and conditions  when it closed Mr Ts account. So I cant say NatWest has done 
anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ts account.
return of Mr Ts funds
Mr Ts also unhappy  about  how long it took NatWest to return his closing  balance  to him. Hes told us 
that he went  into branch after receiving a letter from NatWest to collect his closing balance  but wasnt 
able to access  his balance.   
Mr T says he had to make a number of phone calls to try and find out what  was happening with his 
balance. And says because NatWest didnt  release his balance he had no money. So couldnt pay his 
rent and bills. And he had to borrow money  from friends. 
Mr T says when he was eventually  able to withdraw  his balance, which was in excess of £30,000 he 
had to make  a cash withdrawal, because NatWest would not make  a bank transfer. He says this 
made him feel very anxious.  As he was worried  something might happen to him whilst  walking around 
with such a large  amount of money in his possession. He says this all caused him a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience. 
NatWest decided to block and close Mr Ts account on 28 December 2017, which meant from this 
date Mr T wasnt  able to access  the money in his account. But NatWest didnt release Mr Ts balance 
to him until 7 February 2018. 
Ive listened to several phone calls Mr T made to NatWest to try and find out what was happening. In 
particular calls he made  in January 2018, when  NatWest told him they were  reviewing his account 
and to call back in a couple  of weeks.  But NatWest didnt ask Mr T for any information  about  his 
account. During this call Mr T told NatWest  he had no money to pay his bills including his car tax, car 
insurance and rent. Mr T did as NatWest asked and called back again. However,  he wasnt told when  
he could have  his money released.  
Prior to issuing my decision  Ive asked NatWest for an explanation why it took them until February  to 
release Mr Ts money to him. But I havent been provided  with any information except that at the time 
NatWest were unable to transfer Mr Ts balance to another account.
I can see that this issue has had an impact  on Mr T and caused  him trouble  and upset. Mr T has 
provided us with evidence that he was unable to pay his bills. Mr Ts bank account was frozen for just 
over six weeks. That would have had an impact on almost anyone. In this case I dont think  NatWest 
did enough  to listen to what Mr T was telling them or let Mr T know what  evidence  he could provide 
about the money in his account. And I cant see they took any steps to move things forward until 
February 2018. 
Overall, I consider that the circumstances here are such that Mr T is entitled to some compensation  
for trouble  and upset. So I think NatWest should pay Mr T £350 compensation  for what took place. I 
think that amount fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Ref: DRN91674789my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I intend to partly uphold this complaint.  And direct National 
Westminster Bank  Plc to pay Mr T £350 to compensate  him for the trouble and upset  caused by 
taking too long to return his money.
I now invite  Mr T and National Westminster Bank Plc to give me any further information  theyd like me 
to consider before  I make  my final decision.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9167478