K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr P initially  said he was not aware the PPI was added to the mortgage. But he later said he 
was told he had to have the PPI. These  are very different complaint points and its 
understandable that there may be inconsistencies as these events happened so long ago. 
Lloyds has said they would have made the optional nature  of the policy clear and it wouldve 
obtained Mr Ps consent to add the policy. Lloyds has given me a copy of the mortgage 
application and in section eleven, entitled  Insurance, I can see theres an option to select or 
decline PPI and the option  to select PPI has been  ticked. And Mr P has signed the mortgage 
application. 
Lloyds also gave us a copy of the PPI application form titled  C&G Payment Protection Plus 
Proposal Form.  Mr Ps details have been completed on the form. And the section has also 
been completed to select the details of cover  required by Mr P  so I think  there was 
probably a conversation about PPI at this point. He has signed  the bottom of the application 
and completed a separate direct debit  mandate for the cover  which has also been signed. 
So overall I think Lloyds  made Mr P aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and 
he chose to take it knowing he didnt have to if he didnt  want it. 
Lloyds has said it did recommend the policy to Mr P and from what I have read and been 
told I think thats right. This meant Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for him. And I think the recommendation  was right based on what I have 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
Mr P was eligible  for the policy, and it doesnt look like he wouldve been affected  by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, for example  any unusual  employment 
terms or pre-existing  medical conditions.
Mr P said he had up to six months  sick pay and some other means  to help with 
repayments. But his sick pay would have dropped significantly after 6 months. So I 
think he might have  struggled to keep  up with the mortgage  repayments without the 
Ref: DRN96551492PPI if something were to go wrong.  And this PPI policy  wouldve covered  him for up 
to 12 months if he couldnt  work through accident, sickness  or if he lost his job. And it 
couldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or other means. So I think  he couldve 
found the policy useful had he been unable to work or lost his job.
The policy cost was comparable to other  similar  policies at the time and I have seen 
nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr P.
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for Mr P.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr P, Lloyds also had to give him clear  enough  
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Lloyds  gave him about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But I think 
Mr P wanted  the cover  and for the reasons I mentioned above about why I think  the policy  
was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9655149