K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  about the quality of a sofa she bought through a finance agreement  with 
Temple Finance Limited, trading as Perfect  Home.
background 
In February 2019  Miss G signed a hire purchase  agreement with Perfect Home to fund a two 
seater and a three seater  sofa. They were delivered on 14 February but the three seater 
sofa had no legs and these werent delivered  until 27 February.
Miss G says that at this point she unpacked the sofa and noticed it had scuff  marks on the 
corners. She complained  to Perfect Home and asked for a replacement and she stopped 
paying them  in the meantime. 
Perfect Home arranged for an inspection by a technician and on the basis of the report  they 
offered to repair Miss Gs sofa. But they would  not replace it as they said Miss G should 
have made  her complaint earlier  when the sofa arrived. 
Miss G wanted a replacement sofa so she referred her complaint  to this service  and our 
investigator provided an opinion. He agreed.  He noted that the technician  had explained  the 
sofa was damaged on the corners due to tight entry into the property and that repairs would 
only disguise  the damage. So he thought there was evidence the sofa was faulty when  
supplied and he therefore suggested Perfect  Home should replace it.
Perfect Home disagreed  with the investigator.  They  said the comments  on the report were  
the consumers  and not the technicians and they said that Miss G was out of time to request 
a replacement sofa under the relevant legislation. They  therefore  asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Perfect  Home  so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her sofa under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the sofa should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Perfect  Home, who are also the supplier of the goods, 
Ref: DRN93977912are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Im not persuaded that this sofa was of satisfactory quality when supplied. I say that 
because:
the technicians  report says the damage was caused because of tight entry on 
delivery. Im not persuaded these are the consumers comments as Perfect Home 
have suggested.  I say that because I would have then expected  the technician  to 
provide further  commentary opposing  or supporting this  but there  arent any;
I dont think the sofa can be said to have  been delivered until the legs were. So I 
think Miss Gs rights  under  the relevant legislation started at that point. And under the 
relevant legislation Miss G therefore  had a short term right to reject the goods at that 
time and didnt have  to accept a repair;
So I think Miss G should  now be given the replacement three seater sofa shes been 
requesting. 
Businesses are often willing to hold debt collection activities  whilst complaints are in 
progress. Perfect Home havent been  prepared to do that in this case and arrears have built 
up. I cant insist that they suspend debt collection activities so I cant  say theyve been unfair 
in doing so. But its clearly unfair for Miss G to have been paying, or have  been  asked to 
pay, for a sofa that was of unsatisfactory quality.
So B should remove any adverse reports theyve made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue and payments towards her agreement should commence from the date the new sofa is 
delivered to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Temple Finance Limited to 
replace the damaged three seater  sofa;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue;
require payments to be made from the date the replacement sofa is delivered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9397791