K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ns complaint is about the rejection  of a claim made under her furniture warranty  with 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.
background
In 2015 Mrs N bought two sofas from a national furniture retailer. Alongside that purchase a 
warranty was arranged   it covered  the sofas for accidental damage, staining  and structural  
defects. The structural cover included  loss of resilience to foam  and fibre interiors,  but only if 
the loss exceeded 30%.  The policy provided cover  for five years from the date of delivery of 
the furniture.
In 2016 Mrs N made a claim  under her furniture warranty for a loss of resilience to a cushion 
on one of her sofas. The claim  was eventually accepted and a repair completed to the sofa 
in March 2017. 
In late 2018 Mrs N contacted Great Lakes as she had concerns about the same sofa. By 
May 2019 Mrs N clearly told it the repair from two years earlier  had failed. The business 
notes from the telephone  call in which Mrs N explained this to Great Lakes  detailed  that she 
would be making  a claim online.  Great  Lakes  took no further action.
Mrs N was expecting something  to happen and when  it didnt,  she contacted this service. 
We discussed the matter  with Great  Lakes  and came to the conclusion  that a 
misunderstanding had occurred about  what claim was being made and so Great Lakes 
hadnt understood it was a new matter to be moved  forward. 
Mrs Ns sofa was inspected by a Great Lakes agent  on 31 May 2019. It was recorded  that 
the claim was to do with the front right-hand seat and that Mrs N was concerned about it 
having gone soft and a loss of support. The technician examined the sofa and concluded  
there were no structural faults and the springs were intact, although they had softened  
through use and they were still supportive. The resilience of the seat was tested and whilst it 
had softened it had not passed the 30% density  loss since  it was fitted and so was not faulty. 
The technician noted that the wear on the particular  seat indicated it was a favoured seat.
Great Lakes declined the claim.  However,  it accepted that it should have dealt with the 
matter more quickly and offered  Mrs N £50 in compensation for the poor service. Mrs N 
accepted the compensation  for poor service, but asked us to consider the merits of her 
complaint. 
Our investigator asked  Great Lakes  to explain how the technician  assessed the loss of 
resilience in the cushion. Based on the response, it doesnt appear  there is a scientific  test 
done; it is simply the opinion of the technician based on experience.  
Having considered all the evidence available,  the investigator recommended  the complaint 
be upheld and that Great Lakes deal with the claim on the basis the loss of resilience was 
excessive.
Great Lakes didnt accept  the investigators findings.  It highlighted the technicians  
comments that whilst the seat had softened he felt that against the age of the furniture it was 
below 30% density loss since  fitted and not faulty.  It suggested that the expert  opinion  
Ref: DRN99893752should be relied upon and, as this says the density loss was within tolerance, the complaint 
should be rejected.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I requested some further information, including sight of the previous claim documentation. 
This confirmed the damage was to the same seat as the current  claim and consisted of The 
front seat roll is dropping  down.  The photographs  of the damage to the cushion that was 
replaced appear to show the damage  is in the same  place  as the damage subject to the 
current claim.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The structural defects section of the warranty Mrs N holds provides cover for excessive  loss 
of resilience to foam  and fibre interiors. As our investigator explained,  this service would 
expect a sofa to remain  in a reasonable condition for the duration of any warranty sold, 
unless there  was evidence of abuse or mis-use. In this case  there is no evidence of mid-use  
or abuse. The sofa was also only three  years  old when  the second  claim was made and 
insured for a period  of five years. 
In this case, whilst  the sofa was around  three  years  old at the time the claim was originally  
made, the cushion  in question was less than two years old as it had been replaced in the 
previous claim. As our investigator pointed out, this service would expect an item to remain 
in reasonable  condition  for the period  a warranty was sold for  five years  in this case.  That 
doesnt mean the furniture should remain in perfect  condition as normal wear will mean that 
there will be some deterioration and seating  wont remain  as firm. 
The loss of volume in the cushion  is clearly  visible  in the photographs  of the seat when  the 
foot rest is extended.  The photographs from 2016 show similar damage and that damage 
was considered to be excessive  under the policy terms. In addition,  the photographs of the 
underside of the seating also show the stuffing of the cushion protruding through the 
covering. I am not persuaded this could  reasonably  be considered normal for a sofa only 
slightly over halfway through the term of the warranty.  
Great Lakes has pointed  out that this service relies on expert evidence when considering a 
complaint and claim matters. That is the case.  However, we must  be persuaded by the 
experts evidence  and where  there  is other clear evidence that contradicts it, we will make an 
informed decision on the balance of probabilities. In this case  the photographic evidence 
belies the expert evidence  and is more persuasive. Added  to that is the fact that when  a 
previous claim was made for what appears to be similar damage,  it was accepted  by Great  
Lakes.
I have carefully considered all of the evidence and I consider it indicates Mrs N has a valid 
claim for loss of resilience  in the cushioning  on her sofa. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to 
arrange, as soon as its reasonably safe to do so, for the repair of Mrs Ns sofa. Under  the 
Ref: DRN99893753rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my 
decision before  1 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9989375