K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds), trading at the time as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2002 Mr M took out a mortgage with Lloyds in one of its branches. And at the same  time 
he was sold a PPI policy to protect  the repayments  on his loan if he wasnt able to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. In 2003,  2004 and 2005 he took out 
further secured  loans  with Lloyds and on each occasion was sold additional PPI cover to 
protect his higher levels of borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr M says that, during the meeting in 2002 when he was sold PPI by Lloyds with his 
mortgage, he was given the impression  that he had to take the cover to get approval for the 
loan. And he thinks this was also the impression he was given on the further  sales  of PPI at 
the times  he took out additional  borrowing  in 2003,  2004 and 2005. He says that at none of 
these times  did he need the PPI he was sold. And he wouldnt have agreed to take the cover 
if he hadnt felt pushed into it because he wanted the loans to be approved.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has said about being told he needed to take the PPI 
to get his loans.  I cant now know what was said to Mr M during the meetings he had with 
Lloyds. And it is possible  that the branch staff he spoke to did wrongly inform him he needed  
to take out PPI in the way he describes.  But I have  to bear in mind that these meetings took 
place a long time ago and memories tend to fade over such timescales. And, quite 
understandably, Mr M doesnt still seem to have a particularly strong or vivid memory of 
these meetings now. 
So I dont  think I could  fairly conclude that he was mis-sold the PPI based  only on what  he 
now thinks he was told then. I need  to consider all the information available to me and 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the agreement which Mr M signed for his mortgage in 2002,  
together with those  he signed for the further loans he took out in 2003,  2004 and 2005. And I 
can see that theres a section dealing with PPI in these last three agreements  where  Mr M 
has ticked a box to show he wanted  to take out this protection. Theres an equally prominent  
box he could have  ticked if he hadnt wanted  PPI. Lloyds  has also provided copies of 
separate PPI proposal forms which Mr M signed  in all four years. 
Ref: DRN91853222So, notwithstanding what Mr M says he thinks happened,  and having taken account of all the 
information Ive been given, I think its more  likely  than not that he actively decided  to take 
the PPI at the time of these sales. And I think he did so knowing that the PPI was optional 
and he didnt need to do this to get approval for his borrowing.  But I can understand why he 
may not remember this now.  
The PPI was recommended to Mr M by Lloyds, so it needed to ensure  that it was suitable for 
him. I dont  know all the things it did at each sale to ensure that this was the case. But from 
what I know of Mr Ms circumstances  during  the period of the sales, I cant  see any reason 
why the PPI wouldnt have been  suitable. I say this because:
Mr M appears  to have been eligible for the PPI protection offered and not affected by any 
of the exclusions  or limitations in the cover provided.
Mr M says that he was in a secure job which entitled him to sick pay and a reasonably 
long notice period.  He also says that he could have relied on his partner for financial 
support if necessary.  So he doesnt  think he needed  the PPI cover  which  was sold to 
him. 
But a mortgage is a big financial commitment, where  ones home is potentially at risk if 
repayments cant be made. And this PPI cover  would  have paid out for longer than his 
sick pay or notice period  would have lasted. Its also normally  considered as more  
secure than relying  on others for help. So I still think that Mr M would have valued the 
extra protection the PPI gave him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr M. And as the premiums were  
paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Lloyds also had to give Mr M enough  information  about the PPI cover for him to decide if he 
wanted to take it. I think its possible the information Lloyds gave him could have been better 
than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the PPI cover was unsuitable 
for Mr M, I dont think better information would have  changed  his mind about taking it. I think  
he would  have still thought it gave him useful protection at an affordable cost.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr M has lost out from anything  that Lloyds  may 
have done wrong  at the times when it sold him PPI cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9185322