K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to Rock Insurance Services Limited (Rock) following an error 
that was uncovered when they attempted to submit a claim under their travel insurance 
policy. 
background
Whilst on holiday in Mexico Mrs C had a fall and was hospitalised. Mr C contacted their 
insurer to initiate a claim  only to be advised that their policy  didnt include cover for travel to 
Mexico. 
Because of this Mr and Mrs C had to pay approximately  £2,000 on their credit  card for 
medical expenses, and on their return  to the UK they received an additional bill of 
approximately £2,600 in ambulance expenses. Further to this, Mr and Mrs C believed they 
were uninsured for the remainder of the trip which they say caused great distress especially 
as Mrs C was vulnerable due to the injuries  she sustained. 
When they returned from their trip they complained to the insurer. Initially  the insurer  said it 
had correctly declined  the claim because the cover they had didnt include  Mexico.  However, 
when Mr and Mrs C appealed this decision it came to light that the trip was included  in the 
cover. When Rock reviewed the complaint again it discovered that there  had been 
intermittent issues with its online system and Mr and Mrs Cs policy  covered worldwide travel 
(including Mexico). So, the claim shouldve been  covered all along. Because of this Rock  
asked the insurer to pay the claim as submitted  and it awarded Mr and Mrs C £25 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  
However, Mr and Mrs C say that £25 is not enough in recognition for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. Not only were they left believing they were incurring a financial loss 
by having to pay for all Mrs Cs medical expenses, but for the duration of their holiday they 
believed they were not covered in the event of anything else happening. They said this 
ruined their holiday.  
Following an investigation our investigator  recommended  that Rock pay an additional  £275 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its error. Mr and Mrs C were happy with this. 
But Rock doesnt agree that it should  have to pay any more than its already paid. It says 
that its already  paid an adequate amount of compensation for its error. 
As Rock doesnt agree  with the outcome its asked for an ombudsmans  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the claim has now been paid,  I will 
only be looking at the compensation payment made for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by Rock. And having done so, I intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN93858832Falling ill or sustaining an injury in a foreign country can be a scary and stressful  experience.  
And people take out travel insurance  as a way of safeguarding themselves in the event that 
anything unexpected happens   
In this instance Mrs C required hospitalisation whilst on holiday. This happened  on the 
second day of a 14-day  holiday. With Mrs C in hospital, Mr C was initially  told that the 
insurance they had wasnt valid. Mr C then called Rock a number of times to get some clarity 
on this. Eventually it was confirmed that there was no cover  in place for the trip, and Mr and 
Mrs C paid the medical costs on their credit card. Mr and Mrs C say the rest of the holiday 
was ruined as they had used money  to pay hospital bills they hadnt expected to pay, and 
they believed  they were  in Mexico uninsured for the rest of the trip.
Added to this when  they returned to the UK and complained to Rock, they were told that they 
hadnt selected the appropriate cover for a trip to Mexico when theyd  taken the policy 
out. But Mr and Mrs C were adamant that they had and appealed this decision.  Rock 
reviewed this again,  and on review  it came to light that there had been a technical issue and 
the policy was valid after all. But by this stage Mr and Mrs C had received an additional 
charge for ambulance  use, which was also causing  them some distress.
In a situation like this we need to be careful that we dont  attribute the stresses of the injury  
to be the fault of the business. Mr and Mrs Cs insurer  is only there  to cover a valid claim and 
to assist, if necessary, within the scope of the policys terms and conditions.  And Rock is 
there to administer the policy  and make sure any administration issues  dont arise. 
But in this instance a technological error that occurred in the administration  of the policy led 
to several unnecessary issues arising. Mr and Mrs C were advised they had no valid cover 
when they most needed  it. This exacerbated any distress that Mr and Mrs C were already 
experiencing at a time when Mrs C was hospitalised. The error also affected  the couple  
financially as they had to pay a substantial  medical bill, which is something they hadnt 
planned for. They were also led to believe they had no cover  in place for the remainder of 
their holiday,  which  added  to their distress whilst already in a vulnerable  position.
Because of this I agree  with our investigator. Mr and Mrs C suffered additional distress  and 
inconvenience because of an error  made  by Rock.  So, I recommend that Rock Insurance 
Services Limited pay Mr and Mrs C an additional  £275 (£300 in total)  in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  it caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require Rock Insurance Services Limited to:
pay a further £275  in compensation for the distress caused.
Ref: DRN93858833Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9385883