K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr G said he was not aware that PPI was added to the credit  card.  Halifax has said it 
would have made the optional nature of the policy  clear and would  have got Mr Gs 
consent to add the policy. Where  theres a dispute about what  happened, I have to base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened  taking into account all the 
evidence thats available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Mr Gs personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   whilst other 
equally prominent products have not. From what we know more  generally about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely  there would  have been  a conversation 
with the Halifax  representative about  PPI prior to the details being entered on the 
application and Mr G has signed the application  so I think  this reflected what  he wanted. 
If he didnt want the PPI he could have questioned this at the time. 
PPI would also have  appeared  on Mr Gs monthly  credit card statements and if this was 
something he had not agreed to then I would  have expected him to question this sooner 
than he did. So overall I think  Halifax made  Mr G aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and he agreed to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what he has told us about his other 
insurance policy and savings. The information  provided my Mr G seems to show the other 
insurance policy covers a mortgage.  Mr G felt it also provided cover  for this credit  card but 
hes not been able to provide evidence of this, so I havent been able to place the weight on 
the other policy that he may have wanted.  And this PPI policy  couldve  paid Mr G a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months if he was unable to work  and this wouldve been in addition  to 
Ref: DRN93481872any savings Mr G mightve  had. It wouldve also covered him if he lost his job for up to 10 
months. So I think he couldve  found  the policy useful. And these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9348187