K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  National  Westminster Bank Plcs actions in relation to 
arranging, drawing down  and restructuring of a loan. 
background 
In July 2008, Mr and Mrs M took out a business loan from NatWest. They had bought  a 
property to convert into a home and stables/livery business and had already spent some 
money developing it. NatWest agreed to lend them around £496,000 to remortgage and 
complete the development of the site. 
In 2010, Mr and Mrs M wanted to draw down the last tranche of the loan. The bank 
transferred them to its Specialised Relationship Management (SRM) department, as it said 
it had concerns over the completion  of the project. Their new SRM relationship manager 
(RM) carried out a number of checks before the final drawdown was permitted and asked 
for extra documentation. Mr and Mrs M were also asked to sign a new loan agreement. 
In 2013, the account was returned  from SRM to mainstream banking.  
Mr and Mrs M have  made several  complaints  to the bank over the years, most recently in 
2017, when they made  a complaint through its voluntary Global  Restructuring  Group  
(GRG) redress scheme, which was also available to some SRM customers. 
Mr and Mrs Ms main  complaint points were:
The bank  delayed  the final tranche of their loan at the last minute by requiring various 
additional checks. 
The bank  also insisted  on new loan documentation at the last minute,  because  the 
loan included a dwelling. But the bank had always known  this. This added to the 
delays. 
These delays caused Mr and Mrs M to incur additional costs,  including  increased 
costs for connecting power and travel costs. 
There were  also numerous other  errors, including lost mandates,  direct debits not set 
up or set up incorrectly, bank details sent to the wrong address  and poor 
communication. 
An amount  of £2500 withheld from the loan was never accounted for.
Mr and Mrs M had one other complaint point. But I issued a jurisdiction decision on 
8 February 2021  explaining why I had concluded that this wasnt something this service  
could look into.
The bank upheld  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part. Whilst it thought  that its actions were 
reasonable, it agreed that communication from the bank was at times very poor  and said 
that it hadnt always explained  the reasons for its actions. The bank apologised and offered  
Mr and Mrs M a payment of £5,000  in recognition of these  errors. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  think this offer was enough  to compensate  for the banks mistakes. So 
they asked us to investigate. 
Ref: DRN93908702One of our investigators  looked into things and said that he thought the bank had done 
enough to put things  right. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider, 
taking into account  these points:
She thought  the banks lack of professionalism was almost  more important than the 
losses.
Declining to change  the RM despite  a complete breakdown in the relationship  had 
caused them  considerable stress and anxiety.
There had been a lack of foresight in telling them what would be needed  before the 
release of the final tranche. The bank  could have done this when it decided their loan 
didnt meet its new lending criteria. 
The banks record-keeping had been  very poor and it had lost several  mandates, 
leading them to worry that their personal  details werent secure. 
The banks delays  caused delays in turn in them renting  out their other  property, 
which the bank  knew was their intention. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for essentially  the same reasons. 
NatWest has accepted that its communication was very poor and that it didnt  always explain 
the reasons why it was asking for things. It has apologised for this. But it doesnt think  that 
any of its actions were in themselves unreasonable. Im therefore going to approach  this 
decision in two parts. Ill consider first whether  the bank did anything  wrong, in addition to the 
poor communication. And then Ill address  whether NatWests offer of £5000  is sufficient  to 
put things right. 
Did NatWest cause delays? 
According to Mr and Mrs M, there  were  two main actions on the part of the bank that caused 
delays first, the fact that NatWest  required  additional information before releasing  the final 
tranche, and second, that it then required new loan documentation to convert the loan to a 
regulated mortgage.  
The additional information  required by the bank  included confirmation from the local authority 
that Mr and Mrs M had met the planning  conditions  and building regulations. It also required 
confirmation of Mr and Mrs Ms personal financial circumstances, including bank statements, 
salary slips and credit searches. NatWest  argue that these requirements are standard 
business practice. Mr and Mrs M argue that they hadnt been required before drawing down 
earlier tranches and it wasnt fair to penalise them because the financial climate had 
changed. 
Whilst it would have  been better practice  for the bank to have  told Mr and Mrs M in advance  
what it would  require,  I dont think its actions were in themselves unreasonable.  After all, the 
bank did need  to ensure it was lending responsibly.
I appreciate that it wasnt Mr and Mrs Ms fault that the financial climate had changed in the 
course of their development project. Neither was it their RMs, who had to adopt a more 
stringent approach than that of their original RM given  this change. I dont  think  it would be 
reasonable to oblige  the bank to have advanced the final tranche with no checks, just 
Ref: DRN93908703because it did so with the earlier tranches. And I think all the items it asked for were  
pertinent and not unduly onerous. 
My conclusion is that the requests, although  they were no doubt an unwelcome shock  to 
Mr and Mrs M, were  not excessive. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events  between Mr and Mrs M requesting the final drawdown, 
on 22 April and the bank  confirming that it would  make  the funds available as soon as it had 
account details  for the transfer, which was on 11 August. After Mr and Mrs Ms request, it 
took the RM around a month to write back with the banks requirements and then 
Mr and Mrs M about six weeks  to provide everything.  Im satisfied, however, that the bank 
had everything it had asked for by the end of June. So I think  there was a delay of around 
five weeks, for which the bank appears  to have  no explanation. The bank accepts that Mrs M 
was chasing for updates during this period. 
After the drawdown,  there were then further delays before the new regulated loan was put in 
place in December  2010. These seem to have  involved several  sets of duplicate  
documentation being sent out. Im satisfied there were bank errors here, although  they at 
least didnt delay the project further,  since the final drawdown went  ahead without them. 
I can also see that the RM didnt  answer  Mr and Mrs Ms reasonable request for a 
comparison of the differences  between the two sets of loan documentation. This was clearly 
not in line with good practice. In my view, Mr and Mrs M should  have had a thorough  
explanation of why they needed a different type of loan and what the differences  were.  And 
this shouldnt have  been unduly difficult for the bank to provide. 
In addition to this, I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms loan should have been  a regulated  loan 
from the start, as they had always made it clear they intended to live in the property,  which 
was the majority of the project. So I think the frustrations caused by the need for new 
documentation  and the issues that followed about payments and interest  could all have 
been avoided  if the bank  had set things up correctly in the first place. 
I know that Mr and Mrs M feel strongly  that the relationship  with the NatWest Specialised RM 
had entirely broken down and they should  have been offered a new RM. But I dont think this 
is something the bank  was obliged to do. The bank  has acknowledged that there  were  
tensions and the RM could have handled  things  better. But I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require  it to move customers to a new RM whenever requested.
In summary,  my conclusion  is that the banks information requests were  reasonable. And it 
was correct to switch Mr and Mrs M to a regulated  loan. But the bank did cause a five week 
delay in the final tranche, as well as material frustration and inconvenience for 
Mr and Mrs M. 
Were Mr and Mrs M wrongly deprived of £2500  from the final tranche?
Ive looked very carefully at this point,  as I can see from her correspondence, that Mrs M still 
feels that the bank  has not adequately  explained the matter.
Ive examined the statements for both the original and the replacement loan and I can see 
that on 23 August  2010, the last tranche  of the old loan was paid out and was £47,523. 
Mr and Mrs M were  expecting £50,000  so have  complained that theyve been wrongly 
deprived of around  £2,500. 
Ref: DRN93908704Interest of £2,400 for the quarter ending 6 September 2010 was paid on the date due. Then 
the loan continued to run until 29 December, when the new loan was opened with a balance 
of £496,615, which was credited to the old loan. 
The old loan had a balance of £494,011, so this left £2,600 to cover  the outstanding interest 
from 7 September  to 29 December. The bank took the £2,600 in settlement  of interest due 
and closed the old loan. As interest was normally £2,400 a quarter and the September to 
December period was more  than a quarter long, Im satisfied this was actually less than the 
amount of interest  owed. 
In summary,  then, I dont  think NatWest  unfairly deprived Mr and Mrs M of any funds here. 
Rather, the bank kept back some money  in order to meet  the interest when it fell due, 
because it knew it wouldnt be able to claim the interest by direct  debit in the normal  manner 
it had done in the past. This was a somewhat unorthodox approach forced  on the bank  by 
the need to change to the correct loan type. It resulted in Mr and Mrs M effectively losing the 
use of £2,600 for around four months, but I dont think this would have  had a material  effect 
on their building  project. And this impact is offset by the fact that the real interest at the 
agreed rate for the whole  period would have been  higher than £2,600.  
Mr and Mrs M have  said that NatWest promised to refund the final interest, in the light of its 
errors with the loan documentation. There is a lack of clear documentation  on this point, but I 
can see that on 30 December 2010, the bank wrote to Mrs M saying In view of the time 
delay with the new forms there is interest outstanding of £481.88- can you please arrange  to 
credit  as soon as possible to bring matters to a close?. Later on, the banks internal 
notes confirm that the RM agreed to waive this £481.88 following a conversation with Mrs M. 
I think the £481.88 is more likely than not to have been the additional interest (over and 
above £2,600) incurred on the old loan. I havent  seen any evidence that the bank promised 
to refund the total interest  from 7th September until the loan closed. And Im satisfied there 
wasnt any double-payment  of interest  because of the loan changeover. In other words, both 
the £2,600 and the £481.88 were  interest on the debt that Mr and Mrs M would have  paid 
had the old loan continued without  any change.  
My finding  on this point  is therefore that the interest  refund  that Mrs M recalls  being 
promised was for £481.88. And I think the bank did indeed waive this amount, as Ive 
checked the relevant bank statements and I cant see any evidence  of it being charged  to 
Mr and Mrs M at any point. 
I appreciate this is complicated and I can see why Mrs M has remained convinced  there was 
unfairness here. The complications  were, in my view,  the fault of the bank, since  they were  
created by giving  Mr and Mrs M the wrong  type of loan in the first place. And compounded 
by the RM failing adequately to explain why they had withheld funds from the final tranche, 
as well as various other errors with the set-up  of the new loan. But Im satisfied it didnt result 
in Mr and Mrs M losing money. 
Fair Compensation
Overall, I think its fair to say the banks service  was very poor around the switch from the old 
loan to the new, a problem  entirely  of the banks making. And as Ive explained  above,  I 
consider that the bank also caused some delays. I think both these factors, together with the 
Ref: DRN93908705banks poor communication, caused  Mr and Mrs M distress  and inconvenience.  I think this is 
very apparent from their emails even now, long after the events concerned.  
Mrs M has told us about various costs  she says she incurred because  of the delays. The 
main items she cited were travel  costs, higher power  connection costs,  solicitors  fees and a 
loss from the delay in renting out their other property. 
Like our investigator,  Im not convinced that the delay  caused by the bank had a major 
impact on the costs of connecting the property  to the power grid. The quotations Mrs M 
provided were from some  time earlier and I dont think its likely that the price would have 
shifted materially in the five week period where the bank caused a delay. 
Mrs M also mentioned £3,000 of solicitors fees incurred  because the bank wouldnt let them 
use their own solicitors.  But Im not persuaded this was an additional expense,  as they would  
have had to pay fees whichever solicitor they used  and I dont think it was unreasonable of 
the bank to require them to seek legal  advice. 
I do agree  that Mrs M would have had to continue  her 104 mile round trip for longer because 
of the delay, incurring travel  costs as a result. And its also possible that the delay caused  a 
knock-on delay in eventually  renting out their other property, although I think it likely that a 
number of other factors affected  this too.  
I know that Mr and Mrs M feel that they should  be awarded a substantial sum for the ordeal 
they feel the bank put them through. I dont doubt  that the banks errors didnt help at what 
was no doubt  a stressful time anyway, with a major building  project to complete in a difficult 
economic climate, while both working  and looking after horses. But on balance, taking into 
account everything Ive discussed above,  my conclusion  is that the £5,000 the bank has 
already offered is enough. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster  Bank  
Plc to pay Mr and Mrs M the £5,000  compensation they have already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2021.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9390870