K820x#14complaint
Ms R is complaining about  the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has settled a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy. 
background
Ms R was involved  in a non-fault accident  and reported the incident to her broker to claim for 
the damage to her car. As she wasnt at fault for the accident, the broker  referred  her to an 
accident management company (AMC)  to handle the claim on her behalf. The AMC wrote 
Ms Rs car off and it said it would settle  Ms Rs claim by paying her the cars market value. 
But Ms R didnt agree with the AMCs valuation of her car and was unhappy with the service 
it was giving. So she referred her claim to Ageas  to claim on her car insurance policy.
Ageas valued  Ms Rs car at £2,358.  But, as Ms R had said she wanted to keep  the car, it 
said that it would deduct £589  from the settlement for the cars  salvage. So it said it would 
pay her £1,769. Ms R didnt accept this as she said that she was expecting  to receive at 
least £2,500. She also said that the AMC had valued  the car higher  and was deducting less 
for the salvage.
Ageas later agreed  to reduce the salvage value to £450. But it still thought its valuation was 
fair. Ms R didnt agree as she thinks Ageas has based this valuation on her car being in 
average condition,  but she says her car was in excellent condition.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said Ageas had based its valuation by 
using trade  guides,  which  she said was standard  practice. And she thinks it had acted  fairly  
in doing so.
Ms R didnt accept the adjudicators opinion as she maintains that it had based the valuation 
on using the car in average condition. She also thought Ageas should  have  done  more to 
help her claim against the third partys insurance policy.
As Ms R didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first state that Im only considering the actions of Ageas  in this decision.  Ms R has 
also complained  about the actions of the broker and the AMC. But this was considered  in a 
separate complaint. So Im not considering their actions in this decision.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Firstly, I note Ms R is unhappy with the way her claim was handled. I can see that she was 
initially unhappy with the way the AMC was handling  her claim, so she referred it to Ageas to 
continue. I cant  hold Ageas responsible for anything the AMC did. Ive looked at the way 
Ageas has handled the claim and I dont think it acted unfairly. I can see it offered Ms R a 
settlement figure within four days of it becoming involved in the claim. So I think it has dealt 
with the claim in a reasonable period of time. Im also satisfied it kept her updated  throughout.
Ref: DRN97357282I appreciate Ms R doesnt agree  with Ageass valuation.  But Im satisfied that it has valued 
the car fairly.  This services role isnt to work  out exactly what the value of an individual  
vehicle is. We look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy  correctly and 
valued the vehicle fairly.  Under the terms of Ms Rs policy, Ageas needed to pay her the 
market value of the car, less her excess.
The market  value is defined as the cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, 
specification, model,  age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or 
damage happened.
Ageas has valued  Ms Rs car at £2,358.  Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry trade valuation  guides. Ms R doesnt think this valuation is fair because she thinks  
the valuation is based on the car being in average  condition. But I dont agree. 
Its standard practice  for the industry to use trade  guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation  the guides  give are 
based on the advertised prices of similar  cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. The guides also give an option  to adjust the vehicles  value to take into account 
the condition of the car and its mileage. So these give a fair reflection of the expected cost of 
replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and 
condition  i.e. what the policy required Ageas to do.
Ive looked at the guides and they give a range of between £2,285 and £2,430. Ageass 
valuation of £2,385 falls within this range.  So I think its valuation of the car was fair. 
Ms R is unhappy with the amount Ageas has deducted for the cars salvage.  Ms R has kept the 
car, Ageas is entitled to deduct the amount it would have received for the cars salvage, as 
shes effectively bought the car back from Ageas. Ageas has deducted £450 off the settlement, 
which amounts to around 19% of the cars market value. Im satisfied that this is likely to be in 
line with what it would  have received.  So I think it has made a fair deduction in this respect.
I appreciate Ms R feels strongly  about this matter. But I havent seen anything  to show  that 
Ageas has treated her unfair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9735728