K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2001. They  paid a monthly  amount  
for the policy.
The policy was part of a packaged  protection policy called  a Total Mortgage Protection
Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP can be made  up of three different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover  can be added or taken out as 
the consumer  wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  called Mortgage  Repayment 
Cover - which covered  accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment - not any life or 
critical illness cover.
Mr and Mrs W were both insured under the policy but for differing amounts due to the 
difference in their incomes. If they had made successful claims, the policy  would have paid 
out 75% of the repayment benefit for Mr W and 25% of the benefit for Mrs W for up to 24 
months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax had to make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs W that the policy  was optional and they had to 
agree to take it. Halifax doesnt have much of the paperwork  from that time, which isnt 
surprising considering this was more  than 18 years ago. Where  the evidence  is incomplete I 
need to decide  what I think is more likely to have  happened based on what I do have and the 
broader circumstances. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies around this time 
and the documents weve seen in the past.  And, on balance, the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear  to consumers that the policy was optional and they would have been asked for 
their consent  to the cover. 
Ive also seen a screenshot  of Halifaxs records which shows that it asked Mr and Mrs W a 
series of questions checking  whether they were eligible for this policy and also recorded their 
answers. This to me suggests  they discussed  this particular policy. I think  its likely that 
during these discussions Halifax wouldve made  the optional nature  of the PPI clear and got 
Mr and Mrs Ws consent before adding it to their account. 
Mr and Mrs W have  said they were  led to believe that taking it out would  improve  their 
chances of getting the mortgage  but they havent given me much detail as to what 
Ref: DRN91603912happened to make them think this. Ive thought about this carefully and I think  its possible 
that they were  encouraged to take the cover  but I havent seen anything that shows 
Halifax told them taking out the PPI would  help their mortgage application.  So, on this 
basis, I cant fairly uphold the complaint. 
So with the limited information  I have available to me, I think  its more likely  that 
Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was optional and they agreed to buy it, knowing they could 
refuse if they didnt  want it, even if they dont  remember that now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. This means  it had to take reasonable steps 
to recommend something that was suitable for them.  And based  on what Ive been told 
about their circumstances, I think it was. I say this because Mr and Mrs W were  both eligible 
for the policy and dont  seem to have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations to the policy cover, such as having unusual working arrangements or suffering 
from a medical condition of which they were already aware.
Mr W has told us that he would  have  received  six months  full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness and Mrs W 
would receive three months full pay, followed by three months half pay. But this policy 
would pay out the monthly  benefit for up to 24 months which would be in addition  to, and 
potentially for longer  than, their sick pay. And the policy would  provide  cover for the same 
length of time if Mr or Mrs W had lost their jobs. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs W have said they 
had some savings which  they could have  used. But this policy  would enable  them  to protect  
their savings, or use them to pay for other essential  living costs during the time they werent 
working. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made  and it could help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  their home was not placed at risk. So, on 
this basis I still think the PPI policy could provide a useful benefit  to them.
As I dont have all of the paperwork from the sale its possible  that the information Halifax  
gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But Mr and Mrs W 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. And whilst I note that Mr and Mrs W 
have mentioned they wanted to keep  their monthly outgoings down,  I havent  seen anything 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Ref: DRN91603913Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160391