K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained on her own behalf  and on behalf of her late husband that Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank  of Scotland) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The policy was sold to them when they were applying  for a secured 
loan. It was set up to cover Mr B only.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Firstly, Ive looked at whether Bank  of Scotland  made it clear enough that the policy was 
optional. Mr B applied  for the loan of £10,600  in a branch.  Mrs B told us that her husband 
wouldnt have agreed to take out the PPI. It wasnt his practice to accept such  policies and 
they had no need for one. She told us of difficulties he had with reading, and that he would 
have asked that the agreement be explained to him. However  she thinks the adviser didnt 
explain it properly. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the loan agreement. It had yes and no boxes to be 
marked, adjacent to the question asking if Mr B wanted to take out the PPI policy. The yes 
box has been marked with a cross. Below  this were  numbers setting out the cost of the 
policy. Mr Bs signature is directly to the left of this section. 
I cant say for certain whether the PPI section would  have  been clear enough to Mr B when 
he read the form. Mrs B has given us testimony that he would have asked for help from the 
adviser. And she has also told us he was an intelligent  man.  So overall,  I cant see any 
reason why Mr B would have signed  the loan agreement if he wasnt  happy  with it. I can also 
see that it was witnessed.  
 
Of course I cant  be sure what was said during the meeting when the policy  was sold. I 
accept its possible the adviser may have been  unclear or said something to make Mr B think  
the policy was compulsory and thats why he signed  the agreement. But given the available  
information, I think its more likely  that Mr B decided  the policy was something good to have 
to protect  their repayments   rather than he had to have it. And without stronger evidence 
that Bank  of Scotland said or did something  to make him think he had to take the PPI, I dont 
feel I can fairly uphold the complaint on this basis.
Ref: DRN92444322Next, Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable for Mr B. First of all, there  were  rules 
about who could  qualify for the policy and based on the information  thats  been  provided to 
us, it looks like Mr B met those rules
Ive also checked  the main  exclusions  and restrictions  of the policy  and it doesnt look like 
Mr B would have been caught by any of them.
Mrs B gave us information about  Mr Bs job. He wasnt entitled to sick pay or redundancy 
pay but hed been employed  for forty years in the same role and there was consistent 
demand for people with his skills. Mrs B told us that she was also in secure  employment  and 
if she was too ill to work, she would have been entitled to full sick pay for six months and half 
pay for the following six months. 
But I dont think this is enough for me to say the PPI wasnt suitable. Policies like this are 
there to reduce  the pressure  of meeting payments  in financially difficult  times. If Mr B was 
too ill to work or was made unemployed, the policy would have paid towards the loan 
repayment. This would  have given them peace of mind and security,  particularly as the loan 
was secured against their home.  The consequences  of missing payments could have 
been serious.
So overall, having considered all these  factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable 
for them and the PPI would have provided  them  with a useful benefit which was affordable 
for them. 
Next, Bank  of Scotland  had to give Mr B information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so he could make the decision for himself about  whether or not to take the PPI. 
Mrs B told us that shes concluded  Bank  of Scotland  must not have given her husband the 
information that was appropriate, in order that he could understand the PPI. So Ive 
considered the possibility  that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr B clear enough information 
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the policy.  
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
given his circumstances Mr B wouldnt have been affected by any of those things.  And the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. On balance,  I 
dont think having  better  information would have dissuaded him from buying  the PPI. So 
overall, I dont think its likely  this policy was mis-sold.
Finally Mrs B told us that another complaint  she made to Bank of Scotland  was upheld. But 
the circumstances of each case can be different. So each complaint depends on its own 
particular facts. And Ive noted that that complaint appears to be about a credit card, which  is 
a different product to a secured loan.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B, but for the reasons set out above Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on her own 
behalf and on behalf of the estate of the late Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
9 June 2019.
Ref: DRN92444323Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244432