K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained, via his representative,  about  the advice he received from Quays 
Wealth Management Limited (Quays) to transfer  a personal pension policy (PPP) into a new 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and subsequently to invest with a Discretionary Fund  
Manager (DFM). 
background 
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 11 June  2020.  
Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision.  
Quays responded. It said it would arrange  for the loss calculation to be done. If there was a 
loss payment could  be made into Mr Bs pension plan or direct  to him, whichever he 
preferred. Quays  also noted the £300  distress and inconvenience award. 
Mr Bs representative didnt want to comment further. But it said Mr B had asked for payment 
of compensation  direct  to him, rather than into his pension plan. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  from either party my views remain as set out in 
my attached provisional  decision. 
Quays has confirmed  it will pay any loss direct  to Mr B if thats his preference. Hes said it is 
so, if theres a loss, Quays should pay that direct to Mr B after making the notional deduction 
I set out in my provisional decision, together  with the £300  for distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Quays Wealth Management Limited must redress  Mr B as Ive set 
out in my attached provisional decision and above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98167042PROVISIONAL  DECISION dated 11 June 2020
complaint
Mr B has complained, via his representative, about the advice he received from Quays Wealth  
Management Limited  (Quays) to transfer a personal  pension policy (PPP) into a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and subsequently to invest  with a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). 
background
Quays met with Mr B on 21 September  2015.  A fact find was completed. It noted Mr B was 52 and 
intended to retire  at age 67. He was married  and self employed as a chef with an income of around 
£27,000 pa. He had deferred  benefits in a former employers final salary pension scheme  and two 
PPPs with a major provider. A risk tolerance questionnaire was completed. 
Quays issued a suitability report to Mr B on 8 October 2015. Quays recommended  Mr B transfer one 
of his PPPs,  valued at around  £61,720,  into a new SIPP with the fund invested  in a discretionary 
portfolio that matched Mr Bs attitude  and appetite  for risk. The report  said Mr Bs attitude  to risk was 
7 out of 10 and he aimed to be an adventurous investor.  
Mr B accepted Quays recommendations to transfer  his PPP into the SIPP and to use a DFM.  Ive 
seen the investment management agreement between Quays and the DFM dated  1 October 2015.  
Theres also the DFMs  client agreement  signed  by Mr B, the DFM and Quays on 9 October 2015. 
And Ive seen the DFMs terms and conditions. Ive referred  to those documents further below. 
Quays wrote to the DFM  on 2 December 2015.  Quays confirmed £58,000 had been sent by the SIPP  
provider to the DFM.  Quays said Mr Bs attitude  to risk was 7 out of 10  Highest Medium Risk.  
Quays asked for the fund to be invested  in line with the DFM agreement. 
On 10 December  2015  Quays  emailed  the DFM about several clients, including Mr B. Quays referred  
to the agreement  between it and the DFM.  Quays wasnt happy  with the DFMs  investment strategy 
and which Quays said failed to take into account different clients differing attitudes  to risk and lacked  
diversification. A single asset solution hadnt been agreed. Quays requested a breakdown showing  
the clients  funds held in cash and a target asset allocation for each  client together with a list of 
approved funds and solutions or a return of all clients funds. 
In response the DFM detailed its reasons for selecting a single  asset solution.  It confirmed it hadnt 
and wouldnt invest any of Quays  clients  in other than readily realisable investments as defined  by 
the FCA Glossary. 
The DFM wrote  again on 8 January 2016 confirming  receipt of £58,000 from Mr Bs new SIPP 
provider. The DFM said it intended to invest the funds in line with Mr Bs attitude to risk as notified by 
Quays namely (High  end) Medium Risk. The DFM said, for that type of client,  the asset allocation 
would normally 60% fixed interest, 17.5% Equity ETF, 12.5%  Equity UCITS,  10% Cash. The DFM 
added:
We have  temporarily  invested  the moneys  in the OWG Bond paying 8% as per our investment 
strategy  see attachment.  The amount  invested will be reduced to £34800 and the balance (£23200) 
will held in cash until such time as we invest in line with the above distribution.
From that it appears that only part of Mr Bs SIPP fund - £34,800  was invested in the OWG bond. 
But I think all of the £58,000 sent to the DFM was in fact invested in that bond. 
Mr Bs representative later complained on Mr Bs behalf to Quays. It didnt  uphold the complaint which 
was referred to this service. 
Ref: DRN98167043An adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld.  She didnt think  the 
recommendation to transfer Mr Bs pension was suitable. He had no need of either  a SIPP  or the 
services of a DFM. He didnt need the flexibility  offered by a SIPP as he had no intention of accessing  
his pension in the near future. He was an unsophisticated investor  with little or no capacity for loss. 
The adjudicator also thought Mr Bs attitude to risk had been overstated.  In reality, he was a cautious 
to moderate investor and, as such, his existing  with profits-fund his PPP was invested in was suitable 
for him. 
Quays didnt agree.  It said the adjudicator  had made two fundamental errors. First, as to who was 
responsible for Mr Bs investment losses. And, secondly, as to how redress should be calculated. 
About the first point  Quays  said: 
It had considered the suitability of the underlying investment as well as the suitability  of the 
transfer itself. Detailed  due diligence  was undertaken before the DFM was approved by 
Quays. The DFM provided an approved fund list to Quays and signed  terms of business.  
Formal signed agreements were  in place between Quays and the DFM, the SIPP provider 
and the DFM and Mr B and the DFM, all of which prohibited the DFM from investing in 
unregulated investments. The agreement between Mr B and the DFM said the DFM was 
responsible for the underlying investment selections. Sections 1.1, 21 and schedule 2 of the 
investment management  agreement  are relevant and said only standard assets were 
permitted. 
The DFM was provided  with Mr Bs attitude to risk and asset allocation model.
Quays raised concerns in the email sent on 10 December 2015.  I think  Quays also provided 
details to the regulator  the following day. 
Neither Quays nor the SIPP  provider approved unregulated investments for clients and 
investment by the DFM  in that type of investment vehicle  would  be in breach of all three 
agreements entered into by the DFM and the DFM would be liable.  Quays isnt responsible 
for the activities of a third party that may have operated outside its mandate. Liability is with 
the DFM and the complaint should be directed to it. 
Quays quoted what Id said in another case holding a DFM responsible for a consumers 
losses. 
On the second issue, about redress, Quays said:
It wasnt clear  if the investment was illiquid. The DFM  was in administration. There was no 
evidence of any loss to any client. The DFMs administrators were working closely with the 
regulator to ensure a smooth return of clients  assets. The formal distribution plan didnt 
indicate a shortfall. It wasnt  legally possible  to purchase the asset until the administration was 
complete and in any event the assets would  be returned to the SIPP.  There could be tax 
consequences for Mr B in repaying  Quays. 
All liability for the investment and loss was with the DFM. The complaint should  be redirected 
to it. In my decision  on the other  complaint  Id suggested a direct payment rather than a 
payment to augment the consumers SIPP. Quays agreed that was a prudent  way of 
redressing loss but said the payment should  be made by the DFM. 
Given the ongoing  work being undertaken by the DMFs administrators and the regulator, 
calculating the actual value of Mr Bs investment is currently  very difficult. If clients received a 
return of all assets plus investment growth  then the actual value would be greater than the fair 
value and no compensation  would  be payable. But that might  take several  weeks.  
Quays didnt agree  with what the adjudicator had said about with-profits funds offering a 
degree of capital protection and being suitable for cautious investors  a market  value 
reduction (MVR)  can be applied at any time.  
The adjudicator considered what Quays had said. But she maintained, regardless of the actions of the 
DFM, the transfer  to the SIPP and the recommendation to use a DFM was unsuitable for Mr B. The 
redress shed recommended provided  guidance  as to how to proceed whether the investments were  
liquid or illiquid. Her view remained that with-profits funds, because  reversionary bonuses  once added  
Ref: DRN98167044cannot be removed, provided an element of protection, particularly as MVRs arent  generally applied 
at the selected retirement date. 
Quays responded again  on 29 May 2019. Quays said Mr B completed a risk profiling  questionnaire 
which provided an asset  allocation guide which was mapped into the DFMs model portfolios. Quays 
then provided an investment  instruction to the DFM with the prescribed asset allocation criteria to 
invest in one of the DFMs  portfolios.  Quays  reiterated what had happened in January  2016.  Quays 
said the DFM  had invested  where it saw fit. It had acted outside  its mandate and its agreements  with 
Quays and Mr B. 
Quays didnt agree  the transfer was unsuitable. Mr B had a deferred pension benefits in a former 
employers final salary  pension scheme. He had income  certainty and wanted flexibility from his two 
PPPs to provide  for unexpected eventualities  in retirement. His ceding scheme  didnt offer income 
drawdown. After  independent synaptic research, a SIPP  was deemed the most suitable  option given  
Mr Bs objectives and attitude to risk. 
As agreement  couldnt be reached the complaint was referred  to me to decide.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I agree with much  of what the adjudicator said. In particular I agree  Mr B didnt need a SIPP or a 
DFM. His pension fund was modest, as was his income. He wasnt in a position  to make substantial 
further contributions. He didnt  have  much  investment knowledge or experience. His existing PPP was 
invested in with-profits funds. With-profits funds invest in a range  of different assets, including  shares, 
property, bonds and cash and are generally  sold as low risk investments. I dont think  Mr B had any 
need to access other than conventional,  well known and easily accessible investments. 
There was no guarantee the new SIPP  would  result in him being  better  off financially, particularly, 
taking into account the higher fees  which werent  fully disclosed or properly factored into the 
comparisons. There  was nothing  to suggest Mr B might  need to access  his pension flexibly in the 
future. He was only 52 at the time and he didnt intend to retire until 67. In any event he couldnt  have 
accessed his pension funds  until he reached age 55. If by then his situation had changed  and he 
needed to raise money he could  have  looked  into accessing  his pension fund then. I dont  see that 
was a relevant consideration at the time when Mr B was only 52 and wasnt in financial difficulty. 
I think  there was some  confusion  about  Mr Bs attitude  to risk  identified as moderate from the risk 
tolerance questionnaire he completed, 7 out of 10 or adventurous in the suitability letter and notified 
to the DFM by Quays as Highest Medium  Risk described as (High  end) Medium by the DFM.
Looking at the attitude to risk questionnaire,  the answers  Mr B gave were  somewhat contradictory. 
Some indicated he wasnt comfortable with investment risk. For example,  he disagreed with the 
statement that, if hed experienced a substantial loss on an investment, he wouldnt  be put off making 
risky investments. And he agreed that, when  making financial decisions, he was generally more  
concerned about possible losses than probable gains. And hed rather know he was getting a 
guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about his investments. He disagreed  that hed be happy 
investing a large proportion of his capital or income in a high risk investment.  All in all I think the 
outcome  that Mr B had a moderate attitude  to investment  risk  was questionable. 
In any event, I dont see how that fitted in with the suitability report which  said:  
Your aim is to be Adventurous with your investments and you are willing  to accept  exposure to 
individually higher  risk investments and markets despite the potential  for loss to some or all of your 
capital in order to achieve  a higher potential for investment return. You understand the value of your 
investment can go up and down sharply, and accept this to achieve the potential  of greater returns  
Ref: DRN98167045over the longer term. You understand  that investment returns cannot  be guaranteed and you accept  
that you might get back less than you put in, especially in the short term.
And the report continued:  
 
Having identified your attitude to risk, we also discussed your capacity for loss when
investing any money and I explained that this would highlight the amount of money you could actually 
afford to lose when making your investment. As you have stated you have
no other retirement funds I made you aware that a high risk strategy may have a serious
impact on your ability to provide yourself with income in retirement should  you experience  financial 
losses.
You understood the discussion but explained that you have  always been a risk taker  and
you are satisfied that the attitude to risk agreed upon is within your stated capacity for
loss.
I cant  see that, and in particular the last sentence, was compatible with what Mr B had earlier said 
when he completed the risk tolerance  questionnaire  that he was unable to tolerate  any, or only very 
limited, losses. 
And, regardless of what Mr B may have said about the degree of risk he was prepared to take and/or 
whether he thought he could  tolerate loss, in giving suitable advice Quays had to take into account Mr 
Bs capacity  for loss. Just making Mr B aware  that a higher risk investment  strategy might impact 
adversely on his retirement income wasnt, in my view, enough. Quays should  have pointed out to Mr 
B that he didnt have  the capacity  for the sort of losses that could result and gone on to say what, in 
Quays view,  a suitable  investment approach would be. And, if Mr B had insisted that he wanted to 
pursue a higher  risk strategy Quays should  have  recorded that it had discussed that with Mr B and 
that Quays couldnt  endorse that approach. 
All in all I dont think the assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk was credible.  Quays instructed the DFM 
that Mr Bs attitude to risk was Highest  Medium. I think that overstated Mr Bs attitude  to risk properly 
assessed and entailed more  risk than Mr B could afford,  or should have been advised, to expose his 
pension fund to. I think that meant  Mr Bs SIPP  fund was exposed to a level of risk beyond that which  
Mr B was willing  or in a position   to accept. 
In saying  that I note Mr B did have  some  other pension  provision. He had deferred benefits  in a 
former employers pension  scheme and another PPP.  Quays didnt suggest he transfer his final salary  
benefits and points out that it advised  Mr B to retain his other  PPP as it offered a guaranteed  annuity 
rate or GAR which was valuable. But, even so, I still dont think Mr B was in a position to take a 
significant level of risk with his remaining PPP.  
I think  properly assessed  Mr Bs attitude to risk was probably cautious.  And bearing in mind he had no 
capacity for loss I dont think Quays should have recommended that Mr B take other than a low risk 
approach. As the adjudicator acknowledged,  even if Mr B had wanted to crystallise the with-profits 
terminal bonus,  that could  have been  achieved  by switching out of the with-profits fund or transferring 
to a simple, low cost pension  arrangement  such as a stakeholder plan. 
All in all the advice to transfer was unsuitable as was the recommendation that Mr B use a DFM. I can 
see the argument  that, if Quays hadnt recommended the transfer and then facilitated it, Mr B wouldnt 
have had the SIPP and his fund couldnt have been transferred to the DFM.  And, on that basis, his 
losses would have been avoided. But I dont think thats the right approach.  I think  we do need to take 
into account  what happened  to Mr Bs fund when  it was passed to the DFM for investment. That said,  
Im not making  any findings about what the DFM did. Im not considering any complaint  against the 
DFM. But in deciding  Mr Bs complaint about Quays I think it do need to take into account the DFMs  
involvement. 
Ref: DRN98167046I note what Quays has said about the DFM being  responsible  for the investments   the DFM  
agreement said it would identify and select investments. But I dont agree  with Quays that means the 
DFM will always be responsible for any investment losses. As Ive said,  I think  Quays  
recommendation that Mr B transfer his PPP to a SIPP  was unsuitable. And it was up to Quays only to 
suggest a DFM to clients for whom that type of service  was appropriate which I dont think  it was for 
Mr B. I think  there were  also shortcomings in the instructions given by Quays to the DFM in particular 
around what Quays said about Mr Bs attitude to risk. So I think Quays has a case  to answer too. 
Quays told the DFM  that Mr Bs fund should be invested on a Highest Medium  basis. Quays expected 
the DFM to invest in a portfolio that matched that risk profile. Instead  Mr Bs fund came to be invested 
in the OWG bond. As Ive said Im unclear exactly how much was invested  although I suspect  it was 
the full amount passed to the DFM of £58,000.  
I also note what Quays said about the agreements between it, Mr B and the SIPP  provider with the 
DFM. Ive also seen a spreadsheet listing  a large number  of investments. But I think  that may have 
been an example of the funds the DFM was using at the relevant time.  I dont think it was exhaustive  
or intended as any indication that only those funds would be used. So I dont think its directly 
relevant. And I dont think Ive seen the agreement between the SIPP provider and the DFM.
Looking first at the client agreement  between the DFM  and Mr B I note the following  by way of 
example and not an exhaustive analysis. 
The first page says, under the heading  Involvement of Independent Financial  Adviser, that 
Mr B will instruct his adviser to provide  the DFM on an ongoing basis with information  
concerning Mr Bs objectives, attitude to risk and circumstances on the basis of which [the 
DFM] will assess the suitability  of investments.
Clause 4: the service  provided is the management and investment of the monies  in the 
portfolio. The DFM  will make  investments  that are, in its judgment suitable, for an investor  
with the investment objectives and risk profile notified by the adviser.  
Clause 5: the DFM  will review the investments it arranges on Mr Bs behalf to ensure as far as 
practical the overall portfolio matches  Mr Bs willingness to run risks. 
Clause 6: there are no restrictions  relating  to the management of the portfolio  or the 
transactions the DMF  could  arrange on a discretionary  basis relating to the types of 
investments or markets, the value of any one investment, or the proportion of the portfolio 
invested in any individual or class of asset  except  as set out. The exceptions  included not 
investing more than 10% of the portfolio in any security that isnt listed or quoted on a 
regulated market. 
Clause 8: the DFM  wouldnt be responsible  for losses or depreciation  in the value of the 
portfolio or any element  in it unless that loss had been caused by negligence or dishonesty on 
the DFMs part. 
Schedule 1 dealt with discretionary fund management.  It said,  when the client signed a 
contract with a DFM, the client  agreed - within specified limits   that the DFM could invest the 
clients fund in a range of investments. 
There was a section about risk. Where an adviser was in place the adviser would discuss with 
the client  and assess the clients willingness to run risk and how much he could afford  to lose.  
The adviser  would  tell the DFM  what level of risk was the right one for the client.  The DFM 
described its four model asset portfolio  (aggressive  growth,  growth and income,  conservative 
and defensive).
About the advisers  relationship with the DFM it said that adviser obtained information from 
the client  to decide what objective to set and what instructions  are given to the DFM as to risk 
tolerance. The DFM  then makes the investments   the DFMs  duty was to identify the 
investments.
The agreement makes  it clear  the DFM is required  to take into account, in identifying  and making 
investments, the clients attitude to risk as notified by the clients adviser.  And ensure  that the portfolio 
recommended matches the clients willingness to run risks.  
Ref: DRN98167047Clause 6 gives  the DFM  a wide discretion in selecting  investments. There  is a restriction which Quays 
might point to has having been breached by the investment in the OWG bond.  But Im not sure about  
that, given what Ive said below about the bond possibly being listed on a Nordic market. 
Turning to the investment  management agreement between Quays and the DFM dated 1 October 
2015 I note, amongst other things:  
The recitals say Quays will introduce clients to the DFM who will provide an investment 
dealing service  and make  investment decisions on behalf of the client within agreed attitude 
to risk parameters.
Section 1.1 the definitions clause defines Allowable Investment as any investment  which is 
permitted to be acquired from time to time with the current list of allowable investments set 
out in Schedule  2.
The Standard Investment List set out in that schedule includes  corporate bonds  and shares 
listed on the London  Stock Exchange or a recognised  overseas investment exchange  with a 
link (now defunct) to the regulators website. 
Section 6 set out the DFMs powers and duties. Section 6.2 required the DFM to manage the 
fund in accordance with the investment objectives, performance measures and restrictions 
notified. And having regard  to the need  for diversification and suitability of investments. The 
DFM was only permitted  to undertake transactions in allowable  investments (as defined). 
Again I think  its clear  the DFM was obliged,  when investing on a particular clients behalf, to do so in 
accordance with the clients  agreed attitude to risk. The DFM was also required to take into account  
the need  for diversification. 
Quays argues that the OWG bond wasnt an allowable investment, as defined. Im not sure about 
that. First, the list of allowable investments included corporate  bonds.  Secondly, I cant immediately 
see any specific exclusion that might  apply to the OWG  bond. The exceptions  included not investing 
more than 10% of the portfolio in any security that isnt listed  or quoted on a regulated market. But, 
from what Ive seen,  the OWG bond  may have been listed on a division of the Nasdaq Nordic 
alternative stock exchange. 
But I havent  looked further into whether the OWG bond was an allowable investment or not. Thats  
because I think the bond, for the reasons Ive explained below, represented  more  risk than Mr B had 
indicated, via Quays,  he was prepared  to take. 
Ive also looked at the DFMs terms and conditions. Part 23 dealt with overall  investment objective  
and risk. Clause 23.1 said the DFMs  investment policy  was generally risk averse  within the equity  
and bond market  and based on a five year time horizon.  So the DFM  could meet  its responsibilities to 
a clients investment  needs,  the client should tell the DFM  his broad investment objectives, the degree 
of risk acceptable to the client and the clients  knowledge and experience  in financial services. The 
requirements would be applied to the portfolio  as a whole and not necessarily  to individual 
investments. Overall investment priorities were set out  capital  growth, income or a combination of 
the two. Clause 23.3.2  set out various  risk categories and the sort of investments that would normally 
be recommended. 
There were  specific  terms for discretionary investment management. Part 1 said the DFM would  have 
regard to the clients general investment  objectives and the degree of risk indicated in the client 
agreement. And that the DFM would assume there were no investments or types of investments the 
client wished the DFM not to recommend or markets  other  than indicated in the client agreement. 
Subject to that the DFM could recommend any investments within  the meaning of the FCA rules.
Again that confirmed the DFM would  invest in line with the clients investment objectives  and the 
degree of risk Mr B had indicate, via Quays, he was prepared to take. And Im not sure there was any 
clear restriction  precluding  investment in the OWG bond. 
Ref: DRN98167048I havent seen the documentation relating to the bond. But I understand a series of bonds were issued  
by Optima Worldwide Group (OWG).  OWG  is an investment company which acquired the DFM in 
September 2014. I think the bonds were  invested (by acquiring equity or making loans)  in UK or 
overseas businesses  and secured by a fixed or floating charge on corporate assets, including  shares, 
patents, machinery, vehicles and property. In my view, that sort of investment  making corporate 
loans to businesses  that needed capital  and couldnt access  it by other means  - would  suggest  a high 
level of default might  be incurred and which might not be adequately covered by the security  taken. 
So it was likely to involve a considerable degree of risk.  
Further I understand  that the bond promised  a return of 8% pa. At the time the Bank  of England  base 
rate was 0.5%. So the return indicated  far exceeded what might be available from a standard  savings  
account. I think that sort of return would also suggest that a considerable  degree of risk was likely  to 
be involved. 
And, as Quays has pointed  out, investing in a single  investment meant there was a lack of 
diversification which increased  the level of risk, particularly if the bond was itself higher risk. 
I dont think that sort of single asset investment  could properly be regarded as compatible  with a 
Highest Medium or (High  end) Medium  attitude  to investment  risk. I think  the OWG bond represented 
more risk than Quays  had indicated  Mr B was prepared to accept. Thats  regardless  of whether the 
OWG bond was an allowable investment or not. Or specifically precluded as an unregulated 
investment. 
I further note that Quays expressed unhappiness  to the DFM about the proposed investment. Yet it 
appears the DFM  went ahead with the investment regardless. And despite  assuring Quays that it 
wouldnt invest clients in other than readily realisable investments as defined  by the FCA Glossary. 
The OWG bond was illiquid  and cant be described  as readily realisable. 
All in all I need to take into account the DFMs part in the matter in deciding fair redress and the extent 
to which Quays is responsible for Mr Bs losses. 
fair redress
As Ive said I agree with the adjudicator that properly  assessed Mr Bs attitude  to risk was cautious. 
And I agree  with what she suggested as a benchmark  to use for half of the investment  the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index and, for the other half, the average rate from fixed rate 
bonds. I think  thats  an appropriate comparator because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to his capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income total return index) is made  up of a range  of
indices with different asset classes, mainly  UK equities and government  bonds.  Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher
return.
I consider Mr Bs risk profile (properly  assessed)  was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B in that position. It doesnt mean hed have  invested 
50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. But 
I think its a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return  Mr B could  have 
obtained from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude  and taking into account  his 
capacity for loss. 
Quays will be liable for the loss (if any) Mr B has suffered  in consequence of his fund being invested 
in line with a higher  risk strategy.
Ref: DRN98167049To that end Quays will need to compare  what Mr Bs fund would have been worth invested in line with 
the cautious benchmark Ive suggested and what it would  have been worth had a higher risk strategy 
been adopted   here Id suggest using the FTSE  Private Investors  Growth  Total Return  Index. The 
calculation should be done  from the date of the transfer  to the SIPP  and up to date.  
That may result  in no loss. For example, if Mr Bs fund would have been worth, say, £65,000 using the 
cautious benchmark but £75,000 using the higher risk benchmark then theres  no loss at least  in so 
far as Quays is concerned.  But if Mr Bs fund would have been worth, say, £65,000 using the lower 
risk benchmark and only £60,000 using  the higher risk index then theres  a loss of £5,000 which 
Quays will need  to pay. 
If there  is a loss, Quays should in theory pay into Mr Bs pension plan,  to increase its value  by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict 
with any existing protection  or allowance.  
If Quays is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, it should  be paid direct  to him. 
But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable income. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated  using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected  retirement  age. For example,  if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. If Mr W would  have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
 Further, and as Quays  recognises, a payment direct to Mr B may be preferable in any event  Id 
assume Mr B will be looking  to close his SIPP when  thats  possible.   
Whether Quay has to make any payment for financial loss or not Quays will need to make a payment 
to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience that Mr B has suffered. I see the adjudicator recommended 
£200. I think  that should  be increased  to £300. 
Ive thought about if I should also make an award  for future  SIPP fees. But Mr B has told us that hes 
not paid any SIPP fees (to the new provider who stepped in when  the original SIPP provider ceased 
trading) since 2019 as he has no funds  in his SIPP. So, on the basis he wont face further SIPP 
charges Im not making any award. 
Im conscious  the redress Ive suggested wont compensate Mr B for all his losses.  Mr B may wish to 
think about making  a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  if he hasnt done 
so already. Thats an entirely different  organisation and Im unable  to say what view FSCS will take or 
what compensation, if any, FSCS might award.    
my provisional  decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Quays Wealth Management Limited must  redress Mr B as Ive set out 
above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9816704