K820x#14complaint
Mr L1 and his father  Mr L2 have complained about Admiral Insurance  Company Limiteds 
handling of a claim on their motor  insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions  and comments as being those of Mr L1.
background
In November 2018 Mr L1 was involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. He claimed on his 
policy and Admiral thought his car should be written-off. Admiral  said it had contacted the 
other drivers  insurer  to hold them responsible  for the accident. 
Admiral offered Mr L1 £12,910  as the value of his car. Mr L1 didnt think  this was enough  
and said his car was worth over £15,000. When Admiral refused to increase its offer Mr L1 
complained. He was also unhappy  that Admiral  was taking too long to settle the claim and 
had refused to get the police report,  which he thought would have reduced the time taken to 
resolve the claim.
Admiral said it had valued Mr L1s car using  trade  guides. It said it had offered to get the 
police report if it was needed. But said by January 2019 the other drivers insurer  had 
accepted fault for the accident. Admiral said it had sent a number of chasers  to the other 
drivers insurer  and didnt think it had taken too long to deal with the claim.
Mr L1 remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. He didnt think  Admiral  had taken  
account of his cars low mileage, the condition it was in or the MOT. He said it also had two 
years left to run on a service pack.  Mr L1 also said Admiral gave him incorrect  information  
about how the claim was recorded before later admitting it had been  wrong.  
Our investigator didnt  think Mr L1s complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had 
valued Mr L1s car fairly using relevant  trade guides.  And she didnt think it had taken too 
long to deal with the claim. She also thought  it was reasonable  for Admiral to say it would 
ask for the police report if it was needed. Our investigator accepted Admiral has given some 
incorrect information about how the claim was recorded but thought  it had done enough by 
amending its mistake.  
Mr L1 didnt agree with the investigators  findings  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr L1s policy allow Admiral to take over a claim as it sees fit. I 
look to see that its done  so fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy. 
I can see that Admiral contacted the other drivers  insurer to hold their policyholder 
responsible for the accident. When that insurer didnt respond  Admiral sent a number of 
chasers. It can take some time to resolve  a claim and I dont hold Admiral  responsible  for the 
other drivers  insurer  not responding sooner. I think Admiral did what  it could to achieve  a 
Ref: DRN96559922resolution as quickly  as possible, by chasing  for a response.  So, Im not persuaded that 
Admiral caused any unnecessary delays.
I can understand why Mr L1 thought the police  report might speed up the claim. But I dont 
think it would  in this case. I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to say it only needed to ask 
for the police  report if it was needed.  And in this case, it wasnt needed, as the other drivers 
insurer accepted  responsibility. It can also take some time for a police report  to be provided  
after an insurer asks for it. And as the other drivers  insurer accepted responsibility when it 
replied to Admiral, I dont think the police report is likely to have made  much  difference  to 
how quickly the claim was resolved. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr L1s policy say that in the event of a total loss the most 
Admiral will pay is the cars pre-accident market value. It defines this as the cost of replacing 
the car with another of the same  make, model,  year, mileage and condition at the time of the 
loss, based on current market rates. 
Its not for me to value  Mr L1s car, but to consider whether Admiral has offered fair a 
reasonable amount, in line with the policy terms and conditions.  To do this Ive looked  at the 
valuations provided  by three relevant  trade guides. I generally find the guides  more  
persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices,  whereas adverts  
dont take account of any negotiation during the sale. 
I can see the guides produce values of £13,822,  £12,898 and £12,940. Admiral has offered 
£12,910 which is in line with these guides.  The guides take account  of the mileage and the 
car being in a good condition with a valid MOT. So, Im satisfied Admiral  did take account of 
those things when  reaching its valuation. While I appreciate he also had a service  pack,  that 
doesnt impact on the valuation  of the car itself, which  is what  the policy  covers. 
I understand Mr L1 was frustrated when  he was given incorrect  information by Admiral  about 
how the claim was recorded. But after reviewing the file it was able to put things right. I dont 
think every  error warrants an award for distress and inconvenience. And I think Admiral 
amending the record is enough to put things right. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L1 was hoping for, but I think Admiral has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L1 and Mr L2 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9655992