K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that he was mis-sold  a decreasing term assurance policy by ReAssure 
Limited (formerly Barclays).  
background
In March 1998, Mr O took out a business  loan for £19,000 for a term of five years.  
Mr O says that when he queried  why his premiums were higher than what  hed thought, he 
was told that life cover was a condition of his borrowing. So he bought a policy from 
Barclays, which was subsequently  taken over by ReAssure. 
Much later Mr O realised  that the policy was for 10 years, but his loan was for five years,  so 
he complained  to Barclays but his complaint was rejected on the basis  that life cover was a 
condition of his loan.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The documentation  made clear what Mr O was signing  up for. 
Page  four of the application form made very clear that he was taking out a 
decreasing term assurance policy for £30,000  over a term of 10 years,  at a cost of 
£10 a month.
The business also provided Mr O with the policy schedule and personal illustration 
documentation which  confirmed  all the information on the application form.     
Mr O disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
In summary,  he said. 
Hes disappointed that the investigator sided with the business.
He doesnt  recall reading through the policy documents at the time and that they 
were recently provided by the investigator, but he obviously signed them.
He assumes that he wouldve picked up any errors  had he seen them.  
He doesnt  understand  why hes been made to get this policy  when his loan was for a 
different term and amount. 
It was morally and legally wrong.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
He was unable  to agree that the term assurance  policy  with a £30,000 sum 
assured and for a term of 10 years   sold in respect  of a £19,000 loan over a term of 
five years was a mistake. Its likely this is what Mr O wanted.  
Its not for us to determine whether (or not) the sale was morally correct.  He can 
decide the case upon the evidence thats  before  him, and he cant  say that the 
business has done anything wrong in this instance.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
Ref: DRN97294542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to up hold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr O says, Im unable to 
conclude that he was mis-sold the decreasing term assurance policy  in 1998, even though  it 
didnt match the term and amount of the business  loan.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Os strength  of feeling about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr O and ReAssure, and reach what  I think is 
an independent,  fair and reasonable decision  based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
I note that life cover was a condition of the business loan and thats  probably  why  despite  
Mr Os claim  he wouldnt have been  told it was optional. I also note Mr O didnt have any 
protection in place at the time, therefore  there  was a need for life cover.  So, in the 
circumstances Im unable  to say that the life cover didnt meet  his objectives. 
I appreciate Mr O now says hes unhappy  about  the mismatch between the loan amount and 
term of the decreasing term assurance policy. 
Generally a decreasing term assurance  policy should match the term and amount of the loan 
that its meant to cover. And I think thats  all that ReAssure as the lender wouldve required 
to protect  the loan.  I also note as it was a decreasing term assurance policy it would  also go 
down with the loan. 
But theres nothing  wrong with wanting more cover, and theres nothing stopping a consumer 
from getting this, once the loan has been covered, particularly if the cost was reasonable. 
I think this is probably what happened here as evidenced by the application form which  
clearly states Mr O applied for £30,000 worth of cover over a period of 10 years,  at a cost of 
£10 a month.
I note Mr O was also self-employed and the policy more than covered his loan amount so he 
probably wanted additional  cover.  
Ref: DRN97294543Im mindful the business also provided  Mr O with the policy schedule and personal 
illustration documentation  which  confirmed all the information on the application form. So Im 
not persuaded he wouldnt  have  known what he was getting  into. If Mr O chose not to read 
the documentation I cant blame  the business  for this.     
So despite  what  Mr O now says, I think its possible he was content  to take greater  cover, 
despite his business loan being for a lower amount, at a cost of only £10 a month.  Its not 
clear why he says the policy wasnt suitable  because of its exclusions,  the business  had 
made it very clear that there were no exclusions owing to his self-employed  status.  
So, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr O says about the 
mismatch, Im unable to safely say that the business  was responsible for this. Or that on 
balance it wasnt what he wanted at the time. 
Im mindful Mr O says that his father  wouldve stood  as a guarantor, but a lender is  in the 
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  entitled  to set conditions  to its 
lending. Its not for us to tell ReAssure how to run its business or the conditions it can (or 
cant) set for its lending.  
Im mindful of Mr Os additional  comments but Im unable to safely say that he was taken 
advantage of as Ive seen  no evidence of this, especially if he didnt read through the 
documentation. 
I appreciate Mr O will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask ReAssure to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9729454