K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim on 
their home insurance policy for damage to a septic tank.
background
Mr and Mrs J shared  a septic tank with their neighbours.  It started to overflow  so they 
contacted their insurance company. An investigation  suggested  part of the tank had caved 
in. Lloyds sent a claims assessor who arranged for a second company to visit and report 
their findings. At first Mr and Mrs J were told they would be covered. Then  Lloyds said it 
looked promising. But Mr and Mrs J were eventually told the claim had been  declined. 
After a couple of months Lloyds changed  its reason  for declining the claim. It said it now felt 
the damage was likely to have  been caused  during emptying,  maintaining or repair. But 
Mr and Mrs J said the company who empty the tank told them  it wouldve noticed any 
damage. Mr and Mrs J said they had to chase Lloyds for a copy  of its reasoning and the 
policy information. Lloyds  had two reports and both said they should  be covered by their 
insurance policy. So they want Lloyds to reassess  their claim and compensate  them for the 
extremely poor and stressful service.
Lloyds apologised  for the delay in responding to Mr and Mrs J. It had looked  at the reports of 
the damage to the septic tank.  And it believed the most likely cause was accidental damage 
during the maintenance  or emptying of the tank. However the general  exclusions section of 
the home insurance policy stated that damage of that kind wasnt covered. 
Lloyds said the report noted the tank might  be taking on more water than intended due to 
surface water running into it. And that might have contributed to the failure. But based  on the 
information it had it couldnt consider the claim.  Lloyds accepted Mr and Mrs J had received 
a poor level of service  and arranged a payment of £250 compensation for any inconvenience  
caused. Lloyds  also agreed to pay £160 for the costs of emptying the tank for further 
investigation. And it paid a further  £50 after the payment was delayed.  
Mr and Mrs J werent  satisfied with Lloydss response. So they contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He understood how upsetting it had been  for Mr and 
Mrs J. But he upheld the complaint in part. He felt Lloyds had assessed  the claim and 
declined it reasonably and in line with the terms and exclusions of Mr and Mrs Js policy.  
He could see a payment  had been  sent to cover the costs of emptying the septic  tank.  But 
our investigator noted the payment of £250 referred to in Lloyds final response letter hadnt 
been made. He recommended Lloyds pay this amount as soon as possible with an 
additional £100 for the delay. 
Lloyds accepted his findings but Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. After the investigation theyd 
been told they would be covered for the damage. The claims handler had only changed  his 
mind after theyd called for confirmation. And there were other possible causes  for the 
damage. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96899092I can see how much distress this has caused  Mr and Mrs J. They say they were told the 
claim would be successful. But then they were told the damage had been caused  during 
maintenance or filling and it wasnt covered by the home insurance policy. So Ive looked 
carefully at everything  thats happened  to see if Lloyds has done anything wrong. And if so 
what it needs to do to put things right.
Mr and Mrs J gave Lloyds a copy of the report produced for the neighbours who shared  the 
septic tank. A claims handler  visited the property and arranged for a second report  on behalf 
of Lloyds. Both reports suggested damage  to the baffle was the most likely reason the tank 
had broken. It was more  likely to be accidental damage than wear  and tear.
There does seem to have been some confusion in the information given to Mr and Mrs J. 
They were  told by the assessor it seemed  to be an insurable loss. But during the same call 
the assessor pointed  out that the actual decision would be made by the insurance company.  
I can understand why Mr and Mrs J felt hopeful  about the outcome. But the assessor did 
make it clear  the final decision wasnt his to make  it was Lloyds who would assess  the 
information and reach  a decision.
I can see how frustrating and stressful this has been for Mr and Mrs J. They feel they 
shouldve been  involved in determining how the damage was caused.  The area was liable to 
flooding and Mr and Mrs J feel they couldve provided helpful input. But after looking at the 
reports Lloyds declined  the claim because of what it felt was most likely to have happened.
Lloyds says the damage most likely happened during the maintenance or emptying of the 
tank. And that was an uninsurable event. The general exclusion of damage clause in the 
home insurance policy lists a number  of uninsurable events which  arent covered for loss or 
damage. The clause excludes claims for damage  caused by wear  and tear or maintenance 
and repair. And the clause also excludes  claims for damage that happens  gradually  over a 
period of time.
I appreciate without a definitive answer Mr and Mrs J say there are a number of possible 
causes for the damage to the septic tank.  And I realise they feel let down by Lloyds. But 
based on what Ive seen I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in basing  its decision on the 
expert advice its received. Lloyds has considered Mr and Mrs Js suggestions. But it feels  it 
has made the right decision  based  on the information available.  Its not possible to determine 
exactly what caused the damage  to the septic tank.  But theres nothing to suggest an 
insurable event  was more likely to be responsible.
I can see Lloyds has apologised for the poor level of service Mr and Mrs J received while it 
investigated the claim. They were  advised to empty  the tank so further  investigations could 
be carried out and they were  told Lloyds would reimburse the cost. But they had to chase 
Lloyds before they received the payment. And although Lloyds offered £250 compensation 
for its initial poor service  it didnt actually make the payment. 
Our investigator recommended Lloyds make  a payment of £100 in addition to the delayed  
£250 compensation offered in its final response  letter. And Im pleased  to see Lloyds has 
agreed. I think thats the right response in the circumstances. 
But Ive looked  carefully at the evidence and I cant say Lloyds has acted  unfairly in applying 
the general exclusion clause and denying  Mr and Mrs Js claim.  Lloyds  has reviewed the 
expert reports and declined the claim  in line with the terms and conditions  of the home  
insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN96899093Mr and Mrs J have my sympathy. But I havent  seen  any evidence to suggest  the decision  to 
decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable. And I cant ask Lloyds to settle this claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  
Limited should make the payment of £250 offered  in the final response  letter  of 3 December 
2018 together with an additional  £100  for the delay in doing so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9689909