K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains he was given unsuitable investment  advice by Thinc Group Limited  (the 
business). 
He is being assisted by a claims management company (CMC).  
background
In October  2005, Mr B was advised to invest £7,000  in a stocks and shares ISA  invested in 
the AXA Corporate Bond  Fund   and £13,000  in an investment bond  invested in the AXA 
Reserve Fund. He surrendered the ISA in 2010 for £6,483 and the bond in 2011 for £12,911.  
At the time of the advice it was recorded:
Mr B was in his mid-60s and self-employed.
His gross  income was £12,000. 
He had £95,214 on deposit and £3,000  in an endowment plan. 
He was in receipt  of a private  pension  and a state pension. 
He retired early  due to a heart attack  around  20 years ago. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Mr Bs 2005 financial  review confirmed that he had cash  deposits of £95,214,  an 
endowment policy  valued at £3,000 and income of £12,000 a year. Including the 
value of his property he had total assets  worth  just under £450,000. 
Mr B wasnt advised to invest too much as he was left with a considerable amount in 
liquid funds  and other assets. 
At the time there were  risk free alternatives. 
Mr B told the business that his attitude  to risk was moderately  secure, and he was 
aware that the money could go up or down.
Mr B was provided information  about the different rates  of return  but it was also made  
clear that the rates were  likely to be reduced by the costs. 
The advice to invest in the Corporate  Bond  wasnt unreasonable.  Mr B was looking 
for higher  returns than hed get from a deposit account. 
The Reserve Fund was classed  as being highly  secure and was cautiously  
managed. He didnt  think  this was too risky.  
It seems  Mr B chose to go ahead with the investment  shortly  after the meeting. Other 
than what Mr B says, theres  no evidence  to suggest he was given a time limit of 
three days within which  to decide. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and maintains  the recommendation was 
unsuitable. In summary  the CMC said the projections for the Corporate  Bonds were overly 
optimistic and Mr B would need to stay invested for a full decade  to receive 5.2%.  It also said 
that the business may have miscalculated and the decision to invest was illogical. 
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN91394662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr B says, Im not persuaded that 
the recommendation was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about  this matter.  
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr B wont take the fact my findings  focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the CMC  and the business, and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note the points raised by the CMC,  but I dont  feel its necessary for me to answer every 
single question in order come to the conclusion that I have. And Im not obliged to. I do 
however have to explain  and give reasons for my decision. 
I appreciate Mr B disagrees  with some of the recorded information such as his annual  
income and his savings.  But the adviser could only advise on the basis  of the information 
provided. Im unable to say that the adviser  was wrong to do this or that hes likely to have 
made up the details  about Mr Bs finances. On the face of the available evidence I dont think 
Mr B invested too much  of his funds.  Im satisfied he had reasonable sums for emergencies.  
I appreciate there may have been  other  products available at the time. But Im not 
considering whether or not they may have been  suitable, Im just looking at whether or not 
the recommendation Mr B has complained about was. Its possible the other products 
available might have  been suitable, Im also aware that there were likely to be risk free 
products and the Bank of England based  rate was around 4.5%  at the time. But that doesnt 
of itself mean that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
And any potential projections would have  been just that. Ive seen no evidence to show that 
Mr B was given any guarantees. 
Im not specifically looking at whether Mr B was a moderately secure  investor or whether the 
investments were of a particular risk.  Im  aware  of Mr Bs comments regarding the fund but 
its not for me to give it a risk rating.  Im simply considering if the investment was generally  
suitable for him. 
Ref: DRN91394663I dont think the advice to invest in the Corporate  Bond  was unreasonable. Mr B was looking 
for higher returns than hed get from a deposit account and I think  the recommendation met 
that need. I note the business says this matched Mr Bs moderately  secure  attitude  to risk. 
Given the asset make-up of the Reserve  Fund  Im unable  to say that it was too risky for Mr 
B. I note it was classed  as being highly  secure and was cautiously  managed.  The business 
has confirmed it was invested in 32% Government  Bonds,  31% Corporate Bonds, 25% cash  
and 11% property and held no equities at the time.  
I appreciate Mr Bs comments about risk, but Im satisfied he was broadly aware of the risks 
involved and accepted the risks,  and on balance didnt need his original investment 
protected. 
Im mindful of what Mr B says about the time limited time hes had to decide whether he 
wanted to go ahead  with the investment. But despite  what he says Im not persuaded that he 
had no more than three  days to decide  whether to go ahead  or not.  
Im aware that Mr B invested  just before  the financial crises of 2007/8 and was aware that 
the investments  could  lose money.  Fortunately for him the losses  were relatively small in 
comparison to the invested capital. 
I appreciate Mr B will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9139466