K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002 through a postal application. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think BOS made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  BOS has 
provided me with a copy of the credit  card application. In order  to get PPI, a signature 
separate from the credit was required. Having looked at Mrs Ws application I can see that 
she signed separately for the PPI. I think  this indicates that she wanted the cover and 
agreed to take it. If she didnt want PPI she could have left the box blank. 
BOS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs W has said she didnt  need PPI as she would have received six months full sick pay 
from her employer at the time if she was too ill to work. But this policy  would cover 10% of 
the outstanding balance  of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work  or 
she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any other 
pay she would receive. So I still think the PPI would  have  been useful.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs W paid for it. But BOS has already  offered to give Mrs W back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  BOS has already  paid this to 
Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN94524812Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9452481