K821x#15complaint
Mr U complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with FirstRand Bank  
Limited, trading  as Motonovo  Finance (Motonovo),  has been of unacceptable quality. Hes 
also unhappy that Motonovo have been  chasing him for payments on his agreement  whilst 
his complaint has been ongoing.
background
Mr U took receipt of a used car on 30 December 2017. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motonovo. The vehicle had already completed 75,000 miles and 
was seven years old when Mr U signed the finance agreement.
On 18 January 2017 he contacted Motonovo and complained of the following faults:
noise from the rear of the car
cog light illuminating
water  inside the fog lights
indicator not working
seats making a noise
rust on the edge of the boot
Motonovo agreed to allow him to reject the vehicle or replace it. But a suitable  replacement 
couldnt be found and Mr U continued  to use the car until in November 2018 he contacted  
Motonovo again. He wanted  to know why they were  making charges for arrears on his 
agreement when there was still a quality  complaint on going.
The complaint, which had been  closed,  was therefore re-opened.
Motonovo explained that payments were still due even if a complaint was in process and 
with regard to the complaint about  the quality of the car, they arranged  for an independent 
engineer to inspect  the vehicle. The engineer noted the same faults that Mr U had 
complained of in January and a few others. He noted that the car had completed an 
additional 9,000 miles since it had been  in Mr Us possession and he thought  the faults Mr U 
complained of were  therefore most  likely  to have  happened since he took receipt of the car 
and were consistent with age and deterioration.  Motonovo said they would repair the fog 
light but there was no proof the car was faulty  at the point  of sale, when they were 
responsible for its quality,  so they wouldnt take any further action.
So Mr U referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided her opinion. She 
understood that it was difficult for a like for like replacement to be found and she therefore 
understood the difficulty the dealership had in providing one at the beginning of the year. But 
she noted that Motonovo had agreed to allow Mr U to replace or reject  the car and as a 
replacement hadnt  been possible she thought he should now be allowed to replace it.
She reviewed the charges that Mr U had been asked to pay by Motonovo but she thought  it 
was fair for him to continue to pay towards  his finance agreement whilst his complaint was in 
process and she therefore didnt think Motonovo  had done anything  wrong.  The charges 
theyd applied had been calculated correctly.
Motonovo didnt  accept  the adjudicators opinion. They said Mr U wouldve caused additional 
damage to the car by not replacing or rejecting it in March 2018 when they approved  that 
Ref: DRN96198942action. And they said that, as the independent  engineer had explained the faults were 
consistent with age and deterioration and not likely to have been  present  at the point of 
supply, they wouldnt  agree to allow Mr U to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr U acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Under the relevant legislation Mr U had 30 days to reject the car if he thought  it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  I can see that he contacted Motonovo  within  the first thirty days  and 
that the faults he complained about  were accepted and Motonovo  agreed to allow him to 
reject the vehicle or replace  it. 
The independent inspector noted  that those  same issues were still present so I dont agree 
that its likely  those  faults have happened  since the date of supply or are consistent with fair 
age and deterioration. They were clearly present within  the first 30 days  and I think  very 
likely to have been present at the point  of supply.
I therefore think Motonovo should  allow Mr U to reject his car. 
I say that regardless  of the amount  of time thats  passed since Motonovo  initially  approved 
rejection. The faults that were originally present have not been resolved and Mr U should still 
receive the redress he was promised. I think  its clear  that he never thought  his complaint 
was closed. Ive reviewed Motonovos  system  notes and I can see that he mentioned his 
quality complaint to them  in May and Jul. He seems to have been waiting for the dealership  
but relationships  appear to have become a little strained. I cant see that Motonovo  checked 
to see if the redress  had been  complied  with and I think its fair to suggest  they should  have.
I dont accept that Mr U has caused additional  damage to the car by not having  the faults 
rectified. He wanted  the car replaced  and as this wasnt  possible I think  its fair to suggest 
that it was Motonovos  responsibility to insure  he received the redress he was entitled  to by 
law. Ive not seen any evidence that the faults  that were  initially diagnosed have caused 
subsequent failure  but if they have  I think its fair to suggest this is as a result of Motonovos  
failure to ensure the redress was complied  with, and not because of any delays on Mr Us 
part.
Ref: DRN96198943Its often the case that businesses  are prepared to suspend collection activity whilst a 
complaint is ongoing but I cant insist they do this and, as the charges Motonovo  were 
making were  in line with the terms of the finance  agreement, I dont think  it would be fair for 
me to say they shouldnt have made them. So Im not expecting  Motonovo to take any 
additional action  in respect of this part of Mr Us complaint.
But I do think they should now allow him to reject the car and they should remove any 
adverse credit reports theyve made to his credit file in relation to this issue, as they wouldnt 
have been necessary if the redress had been  carried out as agreed.
Its clear Mr U has been inconvenienced by this issue and in the circumstances I agree with 
the adjudicators  suggestion that Motonovo should  pay him £100  compensation.
I dont think the issues  have prevented Mr U from using  the car. The mileage hes completed  
seems about average and Im therefore not asking Motonovo to refund any finance 
instalments. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell FirstRand  Bank 
Limited to:
end the agreement so that Mr U has nothing  further to pay once any arrears have 
been settled
collect the car at no cost to Mr U
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
pay Mr U £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse credit reports they may have made  to his credit  file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9619894