K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about a car finance  agreement he took out in 2015  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited T/A: Audi Financial Services (VWFS). He says that his 
health issues mean that he lacks the capacity  to understand complex documents and he 
didnt understand  what  he was entering  into with VWFS. 
Mr G also complains that he should  never have been allowed to take out the car finance 
agreement as he could  not afford the repayments.  
Mr G is represented in his complaint but for simplicity Ive referred to all submissions from Mr 
G and his representative as if they were made by Mr G. 
background
Mr G says that he went to purchase  a car and while at the dealership he was persuaded to 
buy a new car using a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS. The purchase price of the car 
was more than £30,000 and Mr G paid a £500  deposit. The remaining amount was to be 
repaid at around £465 each month,  over the 48 month term. 
Mr G says that his medical condition  means that its difficult for him to understand complex 
legal documents,  such as the hire purchase  agreement and this should have been  apparent  
to staff when taking out the finance agreement.  He also says he couldnt afford the monthly 
repayments as he had other significant debts and the majority of his income was through 
benefit payments.  
VWFS says that it was not apparent that Mr G had any difficulties understanding  the finance  
agreement when he took it out and its satisfied the checks  it did showed that Mr G could 
afford the monthly  repayments. 
Mr G is still in possession of the car and according to the Governments MOT history 
checking site, the car had travelled 68,201 miles when it was MOTd in January 2019. VWFS 
says that although some repayments were made to the agreement these were recalled by 
Mr Gs bank, meaning that Mr G has not paid towards the use of the car. 
VWFS is looking to recover  the car but Mr G says that any forced  removal of the car would 
cause him great psychological damage, because of the connections  he has with the car. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators and she set out the reasons why 
she felt that VWFS had not acted unreasonably or unfairly. Mr G didnt  accept those 
conclusions and asked  for the case to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for what are broadly the same  reasons. Mr G has 
referred to various  rules, guidance and legislation  and I can assure  him that I have 
considered these fully before reaching my findings. 
Mr G has referred  to his health issues and that these make it difficult for him to understand 
complex legal  documents, such as the car finance agreement. He believes this should have 
Ref: DRN97696002been clear at the time he entered into the finance  agreement. VWFS however disputes this 
and says this was not apparent when  Mr G entered into the finance agreement.
I cant be certain how Mr G appeared when  he took out the finance  agreement and both 
parties understanding or recollection  of the time seems plausible.  Mr G has provided a brief 
letter from his GP referring to his medical  condition.  VWFS has referred to the dealerships  
recollection of the sale and that Mr G didnt mention or show  any indication  of not being able 
to understand  the finance agreement. I cant be certain either way from these submissions 
what would  or should  have  been apparent at the time Mr G visited the dealership.  
But, I have also considered the interactions  between Mr G and VWFS after the finance  
agreement was set up. The contact notes  and calls between  Mr G and VWFS appear to 
show that Mr G did understand what he had entered  into and the various features or 
requirements of the finance agreement. In these interactions Mr G appears  to have no 
difficulty communicating or discussing the points around the car or the finance agreement. I 
should be clear  that these  were interactions  with Mr G and not his representative. 
While I dont dispute that Mr G has some medical issues,  having considered all of the 
available evidence in this case Im not persuaded that VWFS was aware  of this at the time of 
entering into the finance agreement. I dont  therefore  think VWFS acted unreasonably in 
allowing Mr G to take out the finance  agreement. 
Mr G also believes  he should not have been allowed to take out the finance  agreement as it 
was unaffordable.  As all the parties  know, the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  sets out requirements on lenders around affordability checks. In 
summary, VWFS is required to carry out an assessment of Mr Gs circumstances to ensure 
he can afford the repayments  required  for the finance agreement. 
Exactly what  checks each business  should carry out will depend  on the circumstances  of 
each case and the amount and terms of the credit being provided. A business should  ensure 
any check is proportionate to the lending,  with therefore more  substantial checks for higher 
amounts of lending. 
In this instance, VWFS says it carried out a credit  search and there  was nothing to suggest 
that Mr G could not have  afforded  the monthly  repayments. It recorded Mr Gs profession as 
professional  other and noted a copy of Mr Gs bank  statement showed he had a balance 
of £10,000. 
Im not completely  persuaded  that the information  VWFS obtained sufficiently shows that Mr 
G could afford the monthly repayments  of more than £465. But even if the affordability  
assessment wasnt sufficient that doesnt  mean that Mr G could  not afford the loan.  I note 
that Mr G says he had substantial debts at the time but despite  our requests for further 
supporting evidence of Mr Gs financial position,  Mr G hasnt provided any further  evidence.  
Im satisfied Mr G has had sufficient opportunity to provide further  information  supporting  his 
claim that he could not afford the monthly repayments. But in the absence of anything further 
to show Mr Gs financial position Im unable to conclude the finance was actually 
unaffordable. As Im unable to find the finance  was unaffordable, I cant say that VWFS 
acted unreasonably in granting  the finance.  
As I have seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that VWFS should  not have granted the 
finance I dont  consider  there to be any grounds  to compensate  Mr G for this. I should also 
stress that Mr G has had considerable use of the car since 2015 without paying  or 
Ref: DRN97696003contributing towards  that use. And Ive seen  little to show that Mr G has been proactively 
looking to return the car, even at the beginning of the dispute, which I would have  expected if 
he believes  he should never have had the car. 
Even if I did find that VWFS  should  not have granted the loan I think  it would be 
unreasonable for Mr G to expect to be able to use and benefit from the car without paying 
towards that use. I have noted  what Mr G says about his attachment to the car and the 
impact he believes it will have if the car is recovered from him. But Im not persuaded it 
would be reasonable for VWFS to allow  Mr G to keep a car that cost £32,000 where  he 
appears to have paid nothing  more  towards it than a £500 deposit.  
VWFS has been reasonable in its dealings with Mr G and Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable to try and recover the car while this dispute was ongoing.  The car will have 
been depreciating over time and will continue to do so every day. Should VWFS take further 
steps to now recover  the car that would  not in my view be unreasonable. If VWFS decides to 
seek payment from Mr G I remind it that it should  do so in a reasonable manner clearly  
setting out the amounts due. If Mr G cant afford to pay what VWFS requests I would 
encourage him to engage with VWFS. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  against  Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited T/A: Audi Financial Services. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9769600