K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
background
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020. In that decision I explained that, unless I was 
provided with additional  information  that changed my mind, I was expecting to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr C took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the car had completed 
about 58,000 miles  and was about  eight years  old.
Mr C had some problems  with the car and he took it to get repaired at a third-party garage.  
The garage repaired a ride height sensor  in October  2018 and there  were  repairs  to the 
wiring loom in January  2019. Mr C said faults  with the suspension and electrical issues 
persisted and he therefore  complained  to Close Brothers.
The car was taken to the supplying dealership and they said theyd fixed the suspension 
problem. But they would  not attend to the electrical issues  as they said it was likely  these  
issues had been  caused by a failed repair at the third-party garage.
Close Brothers arranged  for an independent inspection of the car. The inspector noted  that 
many fault codes were  present that covered a range of issues including a coolant  warning  
light being illuminated when coolant levels were at acceptable levels,  and the fuel sensor 
showing low fuel when the level was much higher. He also noted that the Engine  
Management Light  was illuminated.  
The inspector noted that there  was a suspension fault and he noted that fault messages 
were similar to those referred to in the third-party  garages report. So, he thought it was likely 
the repair performed  had not been successful and he was persuaded, because the fault had 
been referred to the third-party garage,  that the problem  was most likely to have been 
present when the car was supplied  to Mr C.
But Close Brothers  didnt  think there  was sufficient evidence  of a fault at the point of supply; 
the point at which they explained they were  responsible for the quality of the car.
Mr C therefore referred  his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his 
opinion. He thought there  was evidence of faults with the car that hadnt been  repaired and 
he therefore suggested Close Brothers allow Mr C to reject  the car and terminate his finance 
agreement with them. He said theyd need  to refund  Mr Cs deposit  and that they should also 
refund the monthly instalments hed made for the time the car had not been in use. He 
thought they should  also pay Mr C £100  compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Close Brothers didnt  agree with the investigators  view. They  said the repairs  had been 
completed by a third-party and they therefore  hadnt been given an opportunity to inspect the 
car and ascertain whether  there  were faults present at the point of supply. They noted that 
the independent engineer had suggested  the car was faulty when supplied as it had needed 
to be taken for repairs. But they didnt think this was sufficient evidence to demonstrate  the 
Ref: DRN91069712fault was there at the inception of the deal. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view but the redress Im suggesting is a little different. I know  
that will disappoint Close Brothers so please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr C. The car here 
was around eight years old and had completed  about 58,000  miles. But I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect the suspension  not to be working properly on a car of this 
age and mileage.
I understand that Mr C initially had repairs  completed  at a third-party garage.  He says that he 
tried to contact the dealership to arrange  with them to review the faults, but they were 
unresponsive. I dont  think hes provided sufficient evidence of that. Ive therefore thought 
about whether  the third-party garages involvement means its no longer  possible to clarify 
whether the faults with the car were  present  at the point it was supplied to him.
The general position under the relevant legislation is the consumer must show  there  is a 
fault with the car. But if they can do this and the fault demonstrates to us that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality in the first six months  after supply then broadly speaking the onus is on 
the supplier to show that the goods did actually conform to the contract when supplied. 
Mr C reported several  faults  to the third-party garage within the first four months. They  
attended to a wiring  loom  problem in January 2019 and that problem, or the consequence  of 
the failed repair,  seem to still be plaguing the car now. Ive read the independent inspectors 
report and can see that there were  many erroneous fault codes present i.e. for fuel and 
coolant levels, that I think, seem likely to be linked to the electrical  wiring  problems Mr C 
reported. If the repair to the wiring loom failed  or exacerbated the problem Mr C was having 
it may therefore not be reasonable  to hold Close Brothers accountable.
Ref: DRN91069713But I am persuaded that there was another problem with this car. The suspension seems to 
have been faulty from the outset. I can see the ride height sensor  was replaced in October 
2018 only a few weeks after Mr C took receipt  of the car. I think  its therefore  very likely that 
fault was present when the car was supplied. The repair was completed by a third-party but I 
can see that in February  2019 the supplying dealership confirmed theyd attended  to this 
issue and repaired it. Close Brothers  system  notes  on 25 February  2019  say:
Wiring that the customer has done themsell  they havent resolved   not done properly. But 
all the other  issues are resolved (sic).
Legislation would allow the business  one opportunity to repair a fault that was present when 
the car was supplied.  I think its fair to say that the first opportunity the business had to repair 
the fault was in February 2019. But the independent inspector confirmed that a fault with the 
suspension is still present. He noted  fault codes were related  to a suspension fault and he 
thought it was likely this was the same fault that had previously been reported  by Mr C. 
So, in those circumstances,  I think it would be fair for Close  Brothers to allow  the car to be 
rejected.
But, even  if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation would also suggest that when  we 
consider whether a car has been  of satisfactory  quality, we should also consider whether it 
has proven to be suitably  durable. And here I dont think  a reasonable person would think 
that was the case. The car was admittedly  ten years old when supplied  so I would expect 
some wear  and tear. But I also note that it was a low mileage vehicle  so wear on 
components would be unlikely to be the same as a typical car of this age. This car has had 
faults reported with the brakes, suspension,  a cracked alloy and wiring loom  issues  that 
appear to have created a host of faults that have rendered the car not driveable.  I dont think  
a reasonable person would suggest  it has been  suitably durable and thats therefore another 
reason I think Close Brothers should allow the car to be rejected.
So, to remedy the situation I think Close Brothers should allow the car to be rejected and 
terminate Mr Cs finance agreement. They should also refund Mr Cs deposit  as hell need 
that to fund any replacement and they should add interest to that refund  as Mr C has been 
deprived of that money whilst hes been financing a vehicle  thats  been  of unsatisfactory  
quality.
Mr C has clearly been inconvenienced by the issues hes had with the car. Hes had to bring 
a complaint to this service when I think it could have  reasonably  been  resolved earlier  and 
hes also had to take the car to be repaired and to discuss  the issue  with the independent 
inspector. Ive noted that he was asked  to obtain quotes to have the car transported to the 
dealership. Having taken all this into account  I think the compensation suggested by the 
investigator for distress  and inconvenience is a little low and Im therefore asking Close  
Brothers to pay £200.
The investigator suggested that Close Brothers  should refund payments for the period the 
car wasnt used due to faults. I dont think that makes the refund clear enough, so Ive asked 
Mr C to clarify this. Hes explained that he hasnt been able to use the car since March 2019  
and the vehicle has been SORN and is still in the garage and undriveable. I understand that  
the car is experiencing electrical  faults  that may be contributing  to that problem but 
regardless I think the suspension issue hasnt been resolved and I note that problem results  
in a warning light being displayed. I dont  think a reasonable  person would think  a car was of 
Ref: DRN91069714acceptable quality  with a suspension problem that caused a warning light to illuminate. So, I 
think there is evidence  the car hasnt been  driveable since March  2019. Close Brothers  
should therefore refund all finance instalments Mr C has paid since  that time and they should 
add interest to this refund  as Mr C has been deprived of that money.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Close 
Brothers Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund  any deposit thats been paid and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
refund  any finance instalments Mr C has paid from, and including, March  2019 and 
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
this issue;
pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C didnt have anything  to add and Close Brothers explained that they hadnt  been aware 
of the fault with the ride height or with the wiring  loom  but they had nothing further to add. 
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr C;
refund  any deposit thats been paid and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement;
refund  any finance instalments Mr C has paid from, and including, March  2019 and 
add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
this issue;
pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9106971