K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mr A complained because National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) turned down 
their mortgage application.
background 
In August  2017  Mr E and Mr A applied to NatWest for a mortgage. The purpose was to 
remortgage a property which Mr A had with another lender, and add his brother Mr E to the 
mortgage. 
Mr E said the mortgage process was the most  intrusive hed ever experienced, with 
questions about  every aspect of their affairs. NatWests adviser sent the application  
electronically, and it came  back within a few minutes saying the application  had been  
declined because of poor credit  scoring. 
Mr E and Mr A checked their credit records. Mr E and Mr A said that Mr A had a very good 
credit record  and Mr E had four late payments recorded. They  went  back  to the NatWest  
adviser in September 2017, and asked for their application to be re-submitted. NatWest 
again rejected  the application. It told them this was because there was adverse data 
recorded. 
In February 2018,  Mr E and Mr A complained. NatWests call handler referred them  back  to 
the original adviser.  They contacted NatWest again in May,  and asked  for a copy  of the 
lending policy which set out grounds for rejection. NatWests adviser wouldnt let them  have 
a copy, but it then sent them its final response  letter.  In that final response letter, NatWest 
apologised for not having  handled Mr E and Mr As February complaint appropriately. It had 
just passed it back  to the original adviser, instead of dealing with it as a complaint. The bank  
apologised and paid £100 compensation, plus £5.40  for phone costs.  
But NatWest  said it hadnt made  any error when assessing the mortgage application, or 
when arriving at the decision to decline the application.  It said it had applied its lending  
criteria correctly. And it couldnt go ahead with Mr E and Mr As application because of the 
adverse information  from the credit reference  agencies. 
NatWest explained  that it has to follow standards  and rules for all mortgage  lenders. It said 
its policies and procedures complied with the Lending Code, and credit reference information  
was one of the factors  it took into account.  The bank acknowledged that Mr E had been a 
longstanding customer. And it said it appreciated that Mr E disputed one of the credit file 
entries, but it said that this didnt make a difference to the decision because  it was still 
showing on his credit file. NatWest said it couldnt proceed with a mortgage application 
because of the credit score with late payments.  
Mr E and Mr A werent satisfied and complained to this service.  They  said theyd been 
refused on the grounds of poor credit score, when their credit ratings were very good and 
good. They said NatWest hadnt tried to look into the poor credit rating. Theyd suffered 
stress and a great  deal of anguish, and had disrupted their lives and mental well-being. They 
said they wanted to know the real reason for the rejection.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr E and Mr As complaint. He explained that the NatWest 
adviser whod  told them about the rejection  wouldnt have seen anything apart from the 
decision on the computer.  So the adviser hadnt  acted unfairly or unreasonably by not being  
able to clarify more  about why the application had been declined.  The adjudicator noted that 
Ref: DRN90012032NatWest had explained what adverse data meant, in its final response letter. He 
appreciated that Mr E and Mr A had been  frustrated  by not being  able to appeal. But he 
pointed out that Mr Es credit report had highlighted four late payments. And a lender could 
make a commercial decision on what lending it does and doesnt  approve.
Mr E and Mr A werent satisfied. They said that:
-they believed  it to be deception when  a lender declined  a loan on the same grounds  
twice, but used different terms to describe that reason. They said this was to deceive  
the customers;
-as they didnt have a bad or poor credit rating, NatWest had hidden  behind the 
label adverse data;
-they were unhappy that NatWest hadnt shown them its lending criteria and policies. 
They said that if NatWest had a lending policy that didnt involve leeway and talking 
to the customers,  something needed to be done;
-Mr E said hed made other mortgage applications and only NatWest had turned him 
down.
Mr E also sent us a copy of his credit file. He said that as his computer was old, the report  
didnt show all the details,  but it should give us an overview.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr E and Mr A were disappointed  and upset that NatWest turned down their 
mortgage application. But my job is to look at whether the bank acted fairly and reasonably  
when it did this.
Like all lenders, NatWest was entitled to set its own lending criteria,  provided it complied with 
the various rules  and guidance which lenders have to follow. It didnt have to have the same 
criteria as other lenders.  I accept that one of NatWests  criteria was to decline applicants  
whose credit files didnt meet the banks  criteria. It was entitled  to decide it would decline 
customers who had adverse data on their credit files, in the form of late payments. I accept 
that was the reason why the bank rejected Mr E and Mr As application. 
Looking at Mr E and Mr As specific comments:
-I dont agree that it was deception when NatWest used slightly  different wording  for 
the two rejections. Mr E told us that the first time,  he was told it was poor credit 
rating and the second that it was adverse  data. I dont  consider that this was 
intended to deceive.  Both explanations  showed  Mr E and Mr A that the problem was 
that one (or more) of their credit files wasnt passing the banks requirements. The 
rejection would have been automatically  processed  by the computer looking at the 
credit file. The banks  advisers wouldnt have seen  Mr Es credit  file  only the 
computers decision. So the adviser couldnt  have given  more  details.  And a lender 
doesnt have any duty to delve  further  into a credit  file  for example to see whether  
Ref: DRN90012033what was recorded  was accurate. I find that the reason NatWest rejected Mr E and 
Mr As application was the late payments  on Mr Es credit file. 
-NatWest was entitled to look beyond the overall credit score number and label. So it 
could reject applicants  who had a record of late payments, regardless of what  the 
overall label  was. The bank didnt have  to accept Mr E and Mr A because their credit 
rating label  wasnt  bad or poor. Mr E has provided us with his credit record,  but 
that doesnt show his late payment record, only the overall number and label. But in 
any event, he hasnt  disputed that there were late payment  markers on his credit file 
at the time of the application. He didnt agree with the markers, but the fact was that 
they were there. It was for Mr E to take up any dispute with the lenders whod put the 
markers there.
-I recognise that Mr E and Mr A would have  liked to see NatWests complete lending  
policy. But I wouldnt expect a lender to provide any customer  with this commercially 
sensitive information.  NatWest has said that customers who dont meet its credit 
scoring requirements will be rejected.  Lenders  can set their own policies and I dont 
consider it was unfair that NatWest rejected  applicants who had late payment 
markers. Having such a criterion didnt break the rules which responsible  lenders 
have to obey,  and I find that was why the bank rejected Mr E and Mr A. Nor did the 
bank have any obligation to show leeway on its own criteria, or discuss them with 
applicants as Mr E has said they would like.
-Finally, lenders dont  all have to have identical criteria. So Mr E being  accepted  by 
other mortgage lenders doesnt  mean that NatWest had to accept him.
So I find that NatWests  refusal was in line with its lending policy  not to lend where there was 
a credit file issue. The bank was entitled  to set its own lending criteria,  and it chose  not to 
accept an application  if a customer had late payments recorded on their credit file. The 
rejection was computer-generated and automated. I dont consider that, as Mr E and Mr A 
believe, NatWest  chose to apply its policies  more rigorously than it needed to.
Ive also looked  at how NatWest handled Mr Es complaint. I agree that it shouldnt have 
passed the complaint back to the adviser  who had twice passed on the rejection, and who 
was the subject of the complaint. It should  have passed it on to the complaints team, and 
this meant  there was a delay in Mr E and Mr A getting a reply. Ive considered  what 
compensation NatWest  should pay for this. I find that the £100, plus £5.40  phone costs, 
which NatWest has paid,  is fair and reasonable. So I dont require NatWest to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019
Belinda Knight
Ref: DRN90012034ombudsman
Ref: DRN9001203