K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about the way Allianz Insurance  Plc handled  his home insurance 
claim.
Any reference to Allianz in this decision includes reference to its appointed  agents.
background 
Mr P made a claim for water damage  to his home. Allianz confirmed that the damage inside 
the home would  be covered. Mr P said he wanted to wait for the external repairs (which  I 
understand were  needed to his neighbours home) to be done before  doing his repairs so 
the same  thing wouldnt happen again.
Allianz arranged  for the internal repair work  to be carried out after Mr P later confirmed that 
the external repair  work had been  done. But things started to go wrong. Mr P reported  poor 
repairs to the floor and delays. Attempts  to rectify the poor repairs  failed, and more damage 
was caused because of a leak.  Allianz agreed to pay Mr P so he could arrange the 
necessary rectification repairs.  It paid £450 for a plumber, £4,485 for the floor and £500 
compensation.
Mr P complained to us about Allianzs handling of his claim. He was unhappy  with what 
Allianz had offered (eg he wanted it to pay for the plumber and decorator  he appointed to 
repair leaking pipe work, for the costs he incurred drying out the room, and for lost rent) and 
he wanted the original repairs completed. He told us:
hed had the floor fixed  for around the amount hed received  from Allianz
hed paid a plumber £300  to fix the leaking pipes
hed paid a carpenter £400  to box in the pipes
the skirting and re-decorating remained outstanding.
To resolve  the complaint  Mr P told us that he wanted an extra £250 for the plumbing (as 
Allianz had paid him £450 but it had cost him £700); £2,000 for the re-decorating; £150  per 
week loss of rent; and a reconsideration of the compensation Allianz had offered.
Our investigator discussed  some of the outstanding  issues with Allianz. Allianz confirmed  
that Mr P had raised concerns  with the standard of the re-decorations its repairer had done, 
but it had overlooked investigating this further. So it said it would consider Mr Ps claim 
further. It said if hed already had the work done  it would reimburse him if he provided a copy 
of the invoice. Allianz also said it would offer Mr P a further £250 compensation in 
recognition of the delay in dealing with this. For the drying costs Allianz told us it had 
previously agreed with Mr P that it would reimburse  him upon receipt of the invoice, but it 
hadnt yet received any invoice.
Our investigator agreed that the service Mr P had received was poor.  But as things had 
already gone wrong twice she thought it appropriate  for Allianz  to pay him for the work rather  
than sending another contractor out. In that regard, she said she couldnt tell Allianz  to pay 
Mr Ps costs without evidence to support them. So she felt that what  Allianz had offered to 
rectify matters was fair. In summary,  she said:
Ref: DRN91346272Allianz had offered  to consider paying  Mr Ps costs  for plumbing, drying equipment  and 
redecorations, but Mr P needed to provide estimates or invoices to show what  those 
costs are/were;
there werent grounds to ask Allianz to pay for any rent Mr P lost because  the policy  
didnt provide loss of rent cover  and in any event  the damage  didnt  render the home or 
room uninhabitable; and
Allianzs £750 compensation offer was fair.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He felt it was unfair that he was being  asked to provide estimates or invoices for the work. 
He also remained unhappy  that hes not being paid for the rent he lost. He said his son and 
daughter-in-law couldnt stay because they couldnt fit the babys  cot in another  room.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments (including what Mr P said to our 
investigator in a recent telephone call) to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this there  are usually two things I need to decide: whether  something has gone  
wrong, and (if so) what the business needs  to do now to put things right.  In this case  its not 
in dispute that things  went wrong   Allianz  has already accepted this. So Im not going  to 
dwell on this issue. Im simply  going to decide  what Allianz now needs  to do to put things  
right  which essentially means deciding whether or not what Allianz has offered to do is fair.
outstanding repairs
Allianz is responsible  for the cost of repairing the original damage that Mr P claimed for and 
the cost of putting right any poor repairs or other damage caused by its appointed agents.
Mr P is looking for the costs he says he incurred in drying the property, the plumbing and 
putting right the re-decorating. I dont think there are grounds  to make Allianz do any more 
than what its offered already. Its agreed to look at the matter further and to consider 
reimbursing Mr P, but he needs to provide evidence of those costs.  Its not enough for Mr P 
to just say that it cost him £x or that it will cost £y  he has to show  that. So Im not going  to 
make Allianz do anything more.
lost rent
Mr Ps son and daughter-in-law stayed in the room that was damaged, and they paid him 
£150 rent a week  to live there. Because of the claim and the ongoing problems they moved 
out and, therefore,  stopped paying Mr P the £150.
As our investigator said, these losses arent  covered by the policy.  Nevertheless, theyre 
costs that I can make  Allianz  pay  as compensation. But I would normally only do this if it 
was necessary for Mr Ps son and daughter-in-law  to move out because the damage made 
the home uninhabitable  rather than it just being  an inconvenience or uncomfortable  to 
continue living there. And I havent  seen anything to show that was the case here. Whilst 
there was damage, Ive not seen anything to persuade me it was impossible for Mr Ps 
son/daughter-in-law to continue  living in the house.
So Im not going to make Allianz compensate Mr P for any rent he lost.
Ref: DRN91346273compensation
I dont punish  or fine businesses  because  they got things wrong. Compensation I award  is 
designed to recompense a consumer for unnecessary suffering (eg distress and 
inconvenience) theyve endured.
As Ive said above,  its not in dispute  that things have gone wrong here and that the claim 
has gone on for longer than it should  have. Thats led to Mr P having to chase things and 
arranging the repairs. Allianz has now offered Mr P a total of £750 compensation. I think 
thats fair in this instance  its in the region of what I would have made Allianz pay if there 
was no offer on the table. So, again,  Im not going to make Allianz pay Mr P any more  
compensation.
my final decision
Allianz Insurance Plc has offered to:
consider Mr Ps claim  for costs incurred for plumbing, drying  equipment and 
redecorations subject  to him providing  estimates or invoices to show what  those costs 
are/were; and 
pay Mr P a further £250  compensation.
In my opinion that is fair. Its therefore  my final decision that Allianz Insurance Plc should pay 
Mr P £250  compensation and to consider his further  claim upon  receipt  of the relevant 
invoices or estimates.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9134627