K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) cancelled  his direct 
debit arrangement without notice which resulted in missed  payments on his credit card 
account. 
background
Mr B had a direct  debit  set up to pay the minimum  monthly payments  on his credit  card 
account. He says Barclaycard cancelled his direct  debit arrangement without his knowledge 
which resulted in him missing payments on his credit card.  Mr B is unhappy that this has 
impacted his credit file so he would like Barclaycard to remove  these late payment  markers.
Barclaycard says it cancelled the direct debit because two direct debit payments were 
returned unpaid.  It says it did notify  Mr B of this cancellation. Barclaycard acknowledges that 
some incorrect information was provided  to Mr B during the complaint process so it offered 
Mr B £25 for distress and inconvenience.  It also refunded  £12 for a late payment  fee and 
£49.72 to cover the interest charges applied as a result of the late/missed  payments  as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
they thought Barclaycard had acted  fairly  when cancelling the direct  debit so it didnt need to 
do anymore. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider  the complaint. 
He says he made a manual payment one month so Barclaycard shouldnt have cancelled 
the direct  debit as it wasnt two unpaid amounts in a row. So the complaint has been passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Mr B but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Not everything can be covered in the terms and conditions of an account  and it doesnt  
need to be. Barclaycard has a process in place when it makes  a decision to cancel a direct 
debit. Ive seen  a copy of that process, and Ive taken it into account  when considering  this 
complaint. It says Barclaycard will cancel  a direct debit if it is returned unpaid two months in 
a row. Thats  what happened in October 2018  and November 2018, so Barclaycard 
cancelled Mr Bs direct debit. 
I think this was a reasonable approach for Barclaycard  to have taken, and its not unusual.  
If it were to have continued  claiming direct debit payments  which went unpaid,  Mr B would 
have incurred more  charges and ended up in a worse position. Barclaycards process 
prevented that. 
Even though  Mr B had made a manual payment  in November  2018 to cover the minimum 
payment amount, that doesnt change the fact that his direct debit payments went unpaid in 
two consecutive months. 
Ref: DRN94272762Mr B says he wasnt aware that his direct debit  had been cancelled.  Barclaycard has 
provided us with Mr Bs December 2018 statement which says Your Direct Debit has been  
cancelled. Barclaycards systems  also show that following the unpaid amounts in October  
2018, November  2018, December 2018  and January 2019, it sent Mr B emails  and text 
messages to notify him. In addition, Barclaycard says Mr B accessed  his account through  his 
mobile phone app where this information  wouldve been available to him. So I think  its more 
likely than not that the notifications were sent and that Mr B was on notice.
As Mr B didnt make  the minimum payments in October 2018, December 2018 and 
January 2019  by the due dates, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly  in reporting these 
late payments to credit reference agencies. Mr B did still meet the minimum payment 
amount by the November 2018  due date through a manual payment, so Barclaycard  didnt  
report a late payment for this month.  
Barclaycard has refunded  a number of charges as a gesture of goodwill and it also paid £25 
for distress and inconvenience.  Overall I cant fairly order Barclaycard to do anything  further  
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9427276