K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is that Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as Forex.com)  had a malfunction 
within its trading platform that resulted in his hedge settings not being executed for two forex 
orders he placed in March 2018.  He says Forex.com is liable for the resulting  financial loss.
background
Forex.com summarised the relevant trades  as follows:
Mr S opened two long (buy)  positions  on different dates in February 2018.
On 5 March he placed  his first sell order to match the first buy position. On 6 March 
the order was triggered  resulting  in closure  of and a loss from the first buy position.
On 6 March he placed  his second  sell order to match the second buy position (with 
an excess which was to create  a new sell position). This order  was triggered and it 
closed the second  buy position  at a loss. The excess created a new sell position.
Mr S says he placed the orders with hedge settings which  meant when they were triggered 
no losses in the two buy positions  ought  to have been crystalized. Forex.com  says its IT 
department looked into the matter and established that Mr S did not make the selection for 
the hedge  settings. It has presented its evidence in this respect. It says Mr S orders were 
executed exactly  as he had placed them  without hedges  so it disputes the complaint.
Mr S has referred to a succession of problems he faced, and brought  to Forex.coms  
attention, after December 2017  and after it changed  its trading platform.  He has presented 
evidence of correspondence he had with Forex.com about the new platforms  problems and 
about its concession,  in response, that the platform needed improvement. 
Mr S disputes the suggestion that he did not apply the hedge setting(s)   which he says is 
out of character in terms of his trading history and strategy, in which  he always  did/does  so. 
He says his application of the hedge setting worked in his many trades prior to March  2018 
and in his many trades since  with the only exceptions  being the orders he has complained 
about. He asserts  that the wider malfunctioning problems within  the platform  was probably or 
certainly the cause  of his hedge setting(s) not being executed.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, he broadly agreed with Forex.coms position 
and he concluded  that the complaint  should not be upheld. He took the view that because  
the platform had other  problems does not automatically mean  its hedge  setting was also 
malfunctioning  especially given Mr S statement that it had never  malfunctioned previously 
or since. Mr S disagreed with this outcome and asked for a decision.  In the main, he invited 
this service to draw inference  from the wider  malfunctioning  within  the platform to conclude 
that the hedge setting  was more likely than not also malfunctioning in relation to his orders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At best, I consider that the wider platform problems  which Mr S has referred to suggest that 
it was possible that the hedge setting  malfunctioned at the time of his orders. However,  this 
service determines complaints on the balance of probabilities and I am not persuaded that 
Ref: DRN91377802the balance of evidence shows this was probable.  I consider, as I explain further below, that 
there is more evidence to suggest the opposite.
I note and understand the emphasis that Mr S has put on his trading history  and strategy.  In 
this respect, I also understand his argument that the idea of him not placing the hedge 
setting(s) for the two orders   when he had always done so, and continues to do so, as a 
fixture of his trading strategy  is implausible.  He says that if we accept  this and combine it 
with the malfunctioning issues in the platform which  were largely unresolved  at the time, we 
should conclude  that he probably placed  the setting(s)  correctly and that the platform  
probably malfunctioned by failing to execute them.
However, available evidence goes beyond the two elements in Mr S argument. There is 
evidence from Forex.coms  IT department showing that the hedge setting was not placed for 
the orders. There is also evidence from Mr S that the hedge setting had always worked  for 
his trades/orders  before  and after the incident  he complains of. In addition,  he has referred 
to evidence that suggests Forex.com  was not elusive or evasive  in acknowledging previous 
problems with the platform. This could further  suggest a likelihood  that Forex.com would 
have done the same if the hedge setting  had malfunctioned, but that it did not do so because 
there was no evidence of such malfunction.
Overall, I do not consider  that a conclusion can be drawn from the balance of available  
evidence to say Forex.coms platform hedge setting probably malfunctioned  as Mr S alleges. 
Forex.coms IT department  could  not find such a malfunction and there is no allegation that 
such a malfunction had happened  before or since the incident complained of. In addition,  
Forex.coms IT department  has produced evidence that the absence of hedged  positions  
arising from Mr S orders was caused  by the hedge  setting not being applied  in the orders.  
These are the elements  that Mr S arguments  and evidence needed to counter balance  
sufficiently and I do not consider that they have done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9137780