K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the interest rate Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have 
charged on his mortgage.  Hes successfully applied for a fixed rate product,  but he thinks  
Halifax should have  applied this to his mortgage  earlier, rather  than charging  him their 
Standard Variable  Rate (SVR).
background
Mr B has an interest-only mortgage  with Halifax.  When he took the mortgage out in 2010, it 
was on a two-year interest rate product that tracked  the Bank of England base rate. This 
ended in 2012, and the mortgage has been  on Halifaxs SVR since.  Mr B successfully 
applied for a new fixed rate of 2.54% in 2018.
Mr B complained to Halifax,  as he was unhappy  they hadnt offered him any interest rate 
products earlier. He thinks hes been  overcharged as a result  as hes been  paying the SVR 
over the years when  his mortgage could have  been on a much lower  rate.
Halifax explained that it was Mr Bs responsibility  to ensure his mortgage  was on the best 
deal for him. They said they gave him enough information for him to know  what interest rate 
he was paying,  and he could have asked  them  about other options at any time, but he didnt.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  He didnt think it was fair that Halifax  hadnt  let 
him know he could  have been  eligible for lower rates over the years. Our investigator looked  
into things, but didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to 
issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr B is frustrated. Hes been  paying Halifaxs SVR which  has ranged 
between 3.99% and 4.24% since its applied to his mortgage, and hes now successfully 
applied for a fixed rate of 2.54%, which has made a significant difference  to the amount he 
has to pay every month. Mr B has told us that he didnt know he could apply for lower 
interest rates on his mortgage, and although Halifax did tell him about this in 2018, they 
should have done so earlier.  So Ive looked  at the information Halifax have given Mr B since 
his interest rate product  ended in 2012,  and thought  about  whether they did enough to make 
him aware  of his options.
When Mr Bs initial product ended in 2012, Halifax wrote to him to explain what this meant  
for him, what interest rate he would be paying  moving forwards, and what his new monthly 
payment would be. Unfortunately,  due to the time thats passed, Halifax  havent been  able to 
provide an actual copy of this letter.  But I have  seen a template of what  the letter  would have 
said, and the contact notes for the mortgage which show that it was sent. So on balance, Im 
persuaded Mr B would have received this letter. 
In this letter it says if you would like to know if we have any new mortgage  deals available, 
please visit our website where you will be able to see our latest products and find out how 
Ref: DRN99099522you can apply. If you do not have internet access,  you can find out more information by 
contacting your local branch. So Im satisfied Halifax gave Mr B information about  what he 
could do if he wanted to explore his interest  rate options  when  his interest  rate product 
ended in 2012.
Halifax also wrote  to Mr B each time the SVR changed  whilst  this rate applied to his 
mortgage. These letters were sent to him in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and set out what interest  
rate would apply  to Mr Bs mortgage moving  forward, and the impact this would have on his 
monthly payments.  The letters also included a Question and Answers sheet  which 
explained that Halifax did have other products that were available  to switch to, and details of 
how to find out about them. So, Im satisfied  Halifax gave  Mr B clear  information about what  
rate he was paying on his mortgage, and what  to do if he wanted to explore his options 
again from 2016 onwards.
However, Mr B doesnt feel this is enough   he says Halifax should have pro-actively told 
him he could be paying  less as he was eligible for lower rates,  as they did in 2018. So Ive 
thought about what the relevant  regulations,  and industry practice was at the time Mr Bs 
mortgage was on the SVR  to decide  whether Halifax have acted fairly here. 
There was nothing in the regulators rules or guidance to say that lenders needed to pro-
actively tell borrowers when there may be lower interest rates available to them. The rules  
say that lenders must  give borrowers  clear information so that theyre able to make  an 
informed choice. And they must  tell borrowers  what their new payments will be when interest 
rates change. As Ive explained, Im satisfied  Halifax  clearly told Mr B that there may be 
other rates available to him at different points over the life of the mortgage, and directed him 
to their website and his local branch to find out more.
As Mr B has suggested, good industry practice has indeed changed over the years,  and 
whats generally expected of lenders now, isnt the same as what would have  been  expected  
in 2012. More recently, it has become  more  common for lenders to reach out to borrowers  to 
tell them  about  lower interest rates  they could be eligible for. Most major lenders   including  
Halifax  undertook to tell borrowers on SVR about rates they could apply for in 2018, and I 
think this now represents good industry  practice.  But this has only happened  in recent years 
 since 2018 when Mr B was offered  a lower rate. This doesnt necessarily mean that 
lenders were  acting  unfairly before this. And Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold 
Halifax to these standards retrospectively,  when that wouldnt have been expected of them 
at the time. 
Ive also considered whether there  were  any other  points over the life of the mortgage  when  I 
would have expected Halifax to have  done  more, considering  Mr Bs individual  
circumstances. But looking at the contact notes, theres been no dialogue between Halifax  
and Mr B since his mortgage was on the SVR  apart from one conversation  with customer  
services in 2012, where Mr B wanted to clarify  what his monthly payment should be. Ive not 
seen anything else that I think should  have  prompted Halifax to highlight  that Mr B could 
have applied  for a lower  rate. So considering everything, Im not satisfied Halifax  have acted 
unfairly here.
Mr B has made reference to some recent news articles  hes seen about customers  that feel 
trapped in their mortgage, paying  more than they should be. Ive considered what Mr B has 
said, and the articles hes referred  to. But when reaching my decision Ive weighed up the 
facts of Mr Bs individual case  considering his specific  circumstances within the context  of 
the wider landscape.  And having done so, Im not satisfied this case should be upheld.
Ref: DRN99099523my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909952