K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the removal of a facility used to record his activity, by Vitality Life 
Limited (the business).   
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The application called Moves, provided  by a well-known social media platform,  was 
being used to record Mr Ms activities. However  because of security  issues the 
application was withdrawn. 
The business informed its customers  in the form of an email  that itd be 
withdrawing the application and gave alternatives to track their steps.  
Whilst the terms and conditions made clear that the plan could last for years,  it also 
made clear that the discounts and rewards offered by the business  could need to be 
revised from time to time.    
Whilst Mr M feels hes lost out, there  were  no guarantees that the facility using 
Moves would  be in place indefinitely and has provided alternative ways   at no 
extra cost  to continue to record customers progress.   
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators view and feels that he has lost out financially by 
having invested in other  products to record his activity, which he cant now do in the way that 
he had been able to.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr M says Im not satisfied that 
the business has done anything wrong.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling  about this matter.   
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr M and the business,  and reach what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Ref: DRN95859242The removal  of this particular facility appears  to be by the social media platform,  in an effort 
to try and protect customers, and necessary, for security reasons. I understand the business 
is merely trying to deal with changes that it has had imposed upon it. 
I appreciate this was a reasonably significant  change, and something that Mr M hadnt   at 
the point of sale  agreed to.  But I note he was given  advance notice, as well as alternative 
ways of recording his activity, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Unfortunately this is an issue thats  affected a number of customers who still wish to monitor  
their running/cycling. But according to the business  they can continue to do so with one of 
the business calorie/heartrate monitor options.  I appreciate that the suggestion  isnt ideal for 
Mr M - but he still has the option to purchase  a separate device. 
Im satisfied that the partners it uses and the way it awards points can change at any time 
and this doesnt mean its in breach of any agreement. In this instance I dont think the 
business is deliberately trying  to make things harder  for Mr M, but as Ive said do its best 
within the given  situation. 
Overall, I dont  think the alternatives  proposed  by the business  are unreasonable, and I dont 
think Mr M would  be too happy  if the business  ignored any ongoing issues  and his security 
was breached. 
In the circumstances I dont think itd be fair to ask the business to refund any money Mr M 
has spent or plans to spend on a new device(s). I also dont  think  I can hold the business 
responsible for any shortcomings that Mr M may face with any of his new devices. 
I also note Mr Ms point  about consulting an expert in accordance with the business terms 
and conditions. But I note the business  cant consult an expert  on something that doesnt 
exist anymore and can only work  on with the changes that have been imposed on it.    
I appreciate Mr M will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9585924