K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 2001 and 
2006 that were  attached to mortgages.  Mr and Mrs K say that Dudley Building Society mis-
sold the policies  to them. 
background
The policy sold in 2001 was in both Mr and Mrs Ks names. When  Mr and Mrs K took out a 
new mortgage in 2006, the existing PPI policy was cancelled and two new policies,  one in 
Mr Ks name and one in Mrs Ks name, were taken out.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with these  findings.  They have reiterated their comments  that they 
were pressured by Dudley Building Society into taking out PPI. In this respect, they have 
referred to a letter they received from the business in May 2001.  This letter  stated that 
Dudley Building  Society  strongly recommend that Mr and Mrs K take out PPI. Mr and Mrs K 
say that it was not made clear  to them that they would  still be granted the policy if they didnt 
take out PPI. They  have  also said that this letter included confirmation  from Dudley Building 
Society that there  was a lock in period  for the PPI, and that it required them to confirm if 
they wanted to opt out of PPI.
Mr and Mrs K have  stated that when  sold the replacement PPI policies in 2006, because  
their mortgage was ported across, they were not informed that they could  make  any 
changes to their existing arrangements. They have also stated  that they are unhappy with 
the sale of life assurance and critical illness policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
I should clarify at outset  that this complaint has only considered Mr and Mrs Ks claim that 
they were mis-sold PPI. If Mr and Mrs K wish to complain about  the sale of life assurance  
and critical illness policies, they will in the first instance need to raise their concerns directly  
with Dudley Building Society.
Mr and Mrs Ks recollection of the PPI sales is that they were pressured  into taking out the 
policies. In this regard they have  highlighted the letter  they received in 2001 from Dudley 
Building Society. That letter confirmed that PPI cover was available to Mr and Mrs K to help 
meet their mortgage  repayments in the event that they were not working. It included the 
comment that the business  strongly recommend that you take out this insurance. 
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ks comments about this letter,  and their 
recollections about the sales. I am mindful  that the sales occurred a number of years ago, in 
my view making them more difficult to recall in detail. The letter  was clearly designed to 
encourage Mr and Mrs K to consider taking out PPI. Overall, I do not consider that that was 
an unreasonable thing for Dudley Building Society to do.
Ref: DRN95450942However, the letter did in my view make  it clear that Mr and Mrs K did not have to take out 
PPI in order to be granted the mortgage  in 2001. The letter  confirmed that if Mr and Mrs K 
did not choose to take out PPI, they should  sign and return the letter. It went on to state that 
choosing not to take out PPI will not affect  our willingness to try to help you if you do not 
take out the insurance cover and do subsequently  fall into arrears  with your mortgage  
repayments. On balance,  my view is that this indicated to Mr and Mrs K that they did not 
have to take out PPI in order to be granted the mortgage in 2001. I cannot be certain  exactly  
what Mr and Mrs K were  told when they took out PPI in 2001, but based  on the contents of 
this letter,  it seems to me more likely  than not that it was made clear to them that they had a 
choice about taking it out.
Dudley Building  Society  has also provided a copy of the PPI application form completed in 
2001. Mr and Mrs K answered various  questions about their circumstances  and signed  the 
application. I consider  therefore that they agreed to take out the PPI policy  in 2001.
When they applied  for their mortgage  in 2005, the mortgage application form that 
Mr and Mrs K signed included a section entitled  Accident, Illness and Unemployment  
Insurance. Three boxes  were available to tick. One stated  that Mr and Mrs K would like 
details of PPI cover  sent to them entirely without obligation. This box was ticked.  The other 
two boxes confirmed  that either Mr and Mrs K had PPI cover elsewhere,  or that they did not 
require PPI cover.
In 2005, Mr and Mrs K signed separate PPI application forms which  again  included 
responses to various questions about their circumstances.  Based on the weight of evidence, 
my conclusion is that similar to the sale in 2001, in 2005 Mr and Mrs K did agree  to take out 
PPI, knowing that it was an optional product.
Mr and Mrs K have  described the PPI sales as being advised. Dudley Building Society states 
that the sales were  non-advised.  Although I am mindful that Dudley Building  Societys  
May 2001 letter included the word recommend regarding taking out PPI, based on the 
evidence forwarded  from 2001 and 2006, my view is that the business did not make 
recommendations to Mr and Mrs K to say that PPI was suitable for their particular 
circumstances. I therefore  do not consider that these were advised  sales.  However, even as 
non-advised sales, Dudley Building  Society  still had to provide information about the policies 
to Mr and Mrs K that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Its possible the information Dudley Building Society gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in both 2001  and 
2005, it doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover. In my view the policies would have been  useful for them  if either Mr or Mrs K wasnt  
working. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Overall, in my view better  information  
about the PPI would not have put Mr and Mrs K off taking out the cover.  Although I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed with my findings,  my conclusion is that 
these PPI policies  were not mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs K paid on their PPI  and whether 
Dudley Building  Society  treated them unfairly. 
Dudley Building  Society  has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ks PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Dudley Building Society 
has been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  
Ref: DRN95450943Mr and Mrs Ks commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont 
think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  Dudley Building Society 
treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt  need  to pay Mr and Mrs K back any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9545094