K820x#14complaint
Mrs H feels that the Santander  UK Plc has treated her unfairly  in relation to two transactions  
with a secondary ticketing  platform.
background
Mrs H says she was involved in transactions in September 2018 using her Santander debit 
card to purchase three  tickets through the ticketing platform  for an event.  She received a 
text from Santander  saying the transaction  hadnt  been successful and shed  need  to try the 
transaction again. The following day she tried again and was successful in getting  the tickets  
she wanted.
Soon after she noticed shed been  billed for two transactions and later received twice as 
many tickets as she wanted. So she complained to Santander. It looked into the matter and 
said it hadnt made a mistake.  But as a gesture  of goodwill it offered her £50. Santander was 
satisfied that shed completed  the transactions and that it thought  there wasnt  a reasonable 
prospect of success in raising a chargeback. 
Mrs H, unhappy with Santanders position, complained  here. The investigator thought the 
position taken  by Santander  regarding  the transactions and chargeback  were  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so Santander didnt have to do anymore. Mrs H doesnt  
agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements  of this complaint. Firstly did Santander do anything wrong when it 
contacted Mrs H about the original transaction or when  it debited Mrs Hs account for the two 
transactions and secondly once it was on notice that Mrs H was unhappy about the two 
transactions did it use its discretion around raising  a chargeback  appropriately.
The transactions
This service has built up a knowledge about  how this ticketing platform  operates. The 
purchaser wishing  to buy tickets (Mrs H here) goes through a sales  process  online and 
towards the end of it they enter their details to make the purchase of the tickets they want to 
buy. They then make the purchase.  The ticketing platform  then present this transaction  to 
the purchasers bank  (Santander in this case) for payment. The bank then has its own 
processes around  whether it makes  the transaction or not. If it does, then it credits the 
account to be paid. It is important to appreciate  that from the moment  of purchase what  
happens is a series of automated electronic processes which  happen almost instantaneously  
between the different parties and their systems.
Ive considered the evidence here.  I can see that after Mrs H made  the purchase the 
platform processed this and presented the transaction to Santander four times  within  
approximately three seconds.  Santander declined the first three transactions  which caused 
an automated contact to be made via text message to Mrs H. So when Santander sent this 
text what it said was correct. So I dont think it made  an error here.
Ref: DRN91421512On the fourth occasion Santander credited the transaction as its automated processes 
allowed it. However Mrs H informs us that the ticketing platform didnt tell her at that time 
that shed been successful in making her purchase. If the ticketing platform failed to tell her 
at this point that isnt Santanders fault. Based  on what she has said and the evidence  
available, Im satisfied  she entered the details  of her debit card with a view to purchasing  the 
tickets. So Im satisfied that Mrs H did consent  to the transaction  and she did authorise it.
The following  day Mrs H in receipt of the text message  from Santander (and presumably 
without having  checked her account in real time) and wanting those tickets she went  online 
again to the ticketing platform. From what I can see she logged in to the platform differently 
to the previous day (which may mean  she didnt see shed successfully purchased  the 
tickets the day before). She purchased  the tickets she wanted  (at a slightly  different total 
cost) and Santander  allowed the transaction and so a second similar amount left her account 
and eventually she got twice as many  tickets as she needed. Based on what she has said 
and the evidence available, Im satisfied  she entered the details of her debit card with a view 
to purchasing the tickets. So Im satisfied that Mrs H did consent to the transaction and she 
did authorise it. And Santander wasnt to know that the ticketing platform  hadnt  told her 
shed got the tickets  and maybe  she just wanted  more tickets. 
As a consequence of this it follows that Santander  was entitled to charge both transactions 
to Mrs Hs account with it. And I see no persuasive  reason for it to refund either transaction 
as I dont think Santander has done  anything  wrong  in applying either transaction to Mrs Hs 
account. Ultimately the money belongs to Mrs H and Santander is obliged  to do what  Mrs H 
tells it to unless  it has good reason not to. Im not satisfied that Santander had sufficient 
reason to block either transaction.
The chargeback
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider (which isnt Santander) and 
provides a process for financial  services  companies to recover funds for its account holders 
in certain situations.  I should stress  that this process  is not a right for consumers to go 
through. 
This service considers it to be good  practice  for firms such as Santander to consider the 
particular circumstances  (such as Mrs Hs) when considering  whether  or not to go through  
the chargeback  process- but this is at their discretion based on the criteria of the chargeback 
scheme. And if it fairly  decides there is no realistic prospect  of success  of a chargeback then 
it is entitled to decide  to not go through the process  of a chargeback. And in the event  a 
complaint about  this comes to this service  then we will consider whether Santander used its 
discretion fairly within those parameters.
Considering the situation  in this case Santander  didnt  consider there  to be a realistic 
prospect of success in raising a chargeback when Mrs H raised  her concerns about the two 
transactions. So it didnt go through the process.  So did Santander exercise its discretion 
here fairly and reasonably within the scheme  rules,  and if not, what  should the remedy  be (if 
any)?
Santander has described how it considered the scheme rules and the circumstances of 
Mrs Hs transactions. It noted  that these werent  duplicate transactions that were  credited. 
They were  different amounts on different times  on different  days. Mrs H also got the tickets 
she wanted, so it wasnt a failed transaction in that sense. As Santander  has said it 
considered the degree of success  and validity of a potential  chargeback  and decided  not to 
Ref: DRN91421513go through that process. Having considered the circumstances and each transaction both 
separately and in light of each  other Im not persuaded Santander has used its discretion in 
relation to the chargeback  scheme  unfairly or unreasonably.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Mrs H has said.  I appreciate how Mrs H feels about 
the whole  situation. And I remind Mrs H that Santander is only responsible  for how it acts 
and not for other parties. All in all it is my decision  that this complaint does not succeed. If 
Mrs H wishes  to accept the offer Santander  made, she should contact Santander.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  6 June 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142151