K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr M was given  a loan of £1,000 by 118 118 Money in March  2018. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around  £98. The total amount payable, including interest 
was just over £1,184.  I understand  the loan account  was settled in 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. She thought 118 118 Money  ought  not to 
have provided  the loan to Mr M and she asked the lender to put things right.  118 118 Money 
doesnt appear to have  responded  to the adjudicators  assessment . As the complaint hasnt 
been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
I think there are some overarching  questions  I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If not, what  would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately,  did 118 118 Money  make  a fair lending  decision? 
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
118 118 Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. The lender  was required to carry out a borrower  focussed  assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 118 118 Money  had to 
think about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr M. 
118 118 Money had to carry  out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr 
M would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 118 118 
Money had to do, but it could take into account a number of different  things  such  as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers  overall 
financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN95316872the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should have been for any application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether 118 118 Money did what  it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr M.
118 118 Money says that Mr M applied for his loan via its website. 118 118 Money asked Mr 
M for information about his income  and expenditure and it acquired  a credit report. 118 118 
Money assessed that the loan was affordable  for Mr M.  I think  the lender could have done 
more to probe Mr Ms monthly expenditure, as the outgoings declared on his application 
form appear to be quite limited, even  considering  Mr Ms declaration that he lived with his 
parents. But in any event, I dont  think  that on this occasion 118 118 Money made a fair 
lending decision and I will explain why.
118 118 Money was required to establish  whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't  automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
The information gathered by 118 118 Money  before lending to Mr M showed that hed 
underestimated the amount that he was spending  each month on his credit commitments.  
 The credit search showed that Mr M had to make  monthly repayments  of around £1,729 
towards his existing credit commitments  which included  three  loans and a hire purchase 
agreement  in addition to a number  of credit cards, at least  two of which were very near 
their credit limit.
Mr Ms declared monthly income was £1,780. Given the information  on the credit report, I 
think 118 118 Money ought  reasonably  to have questioned whether Mr M would have had 
enough disposable income  to comfortably cover his monthly loan repayment, as well as his 
existing creditors, his regular living expenses and any unexpected emergencies  that might  
arise during  the 12-month loan term.
118 118 Money suggests that at least one of Mr Ms outstanding loans was repaid  shortly 
after he took his loan from 118 118 Money.  And its possible that some of his other credit 
commitments may or may not have been paid off or reduced when the credit report was 
updated.  But I think a lender should  react appropriately to the information that any checks  
show. I think Mr Ms credit check should  reasonably have raised concerns with 118 118 
Money as it showed  there were potentially outstanding credit commitments  and that Mr Ms 
monthly outgoings were  higher than he had estimated.  I think  this should have put 118 118 
Ref: DRN95316873Money on notice that this consumer might be having difficulties managing his finances and 
that he might  struggle  to repay his loan in a sustainable  manner.  
Ive not seen anything which suggests that 118 118 Money queried  with Mr M whether  he 
planned to reduce his monthly  outgoings by consolidating his credit commitments with his 
loan from 118 118 Money.  Overall,  I think that 118 118 Money  ought  reasonably  to have 
realised from the information that it had gathered that Mr M would most likely have difficulties 
repaying his loan sustainably over the 12-month  loan term. I dont think 118 118 Money 
ought reasonably  to have concluded that it would be right to provide the loan to him.
Ive not seen anything which makes me think that 118 118 Money treated Mr M unfairly  in 
some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont think  it should have agreed  to 
provide the loan to him. So, I uphold  Mr Ms complaint and 118 118 Money needs to put 
things right.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to have repaid  the principal amount that he 
borrowed, because  he had the benefit of that lending.  But he has paid interest and charges 
on a loan that shouldnt have been provided  to him. 
118 118 Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments Mr 
M made as payments towards  the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account  results in him having effectively made  payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then 118 118 Money  should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled*. 
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to deduct tax from this interest.  118 118 
Money should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN95316874my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9531687