K820x#14complaint
Mrs W believes she received unsuitable  advice to contract-out of the State Earnings Related  
Pension Scheme (SERPS) and says she has lost out financially as a result of this advice
 
background
Mrs W received  advice  in 1988 to contract out of SERPS via an Appropriate  Personal  
Pension (APP) plan with Scottish Widows.  The advice was provided by an independent  
financial adviser, from here on referred  to as Firm F.
Mrs W complained  to Scottish Widows about  the sale of the plan in 2019.  Scottish Widows 
reviewed the complaint  but said it wouldnt be investigating further as its records  show that it 
was sold by Firm F. 
Mrs W was unhappy with Scottish Widows response so she referred  her complaint to this 
service for an independent  review. 
One of our investigators  review matters but didnt think Scottish Widows could be held 
responsible for the advice to take the APP plan out. 
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings.  In summary shes  said that: 
Scottish Widows  has a case to answer  as shes worse  off now than if shed remained 
contracted into SERPS
All the correspondence regarding the plan was issued  on Scottish Widows letter  
head
Firm F receiving commission for the sale shouldnt mean that Scottish Widows are 
compliant, as per the Supreme Court ruling  for Pimlico Plumbers 
Mrs Ws husband has also complained about the sale of his APP plan and that has 
been considered
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator,  for mostly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.  
Fundamental in assessing Mrs Ws complaint  against Scottish Widows is whether or not its 
responsible for the advice she received to contract out of SERPS. However, having 
considered all the submissions, Im satisfied that the advice Mrs W received was given by 
Firm F. 
Scottish Widows  says its not responsible for the advice given by Firm F. But I note that 
Mrs W believes Firm F received commission from Scottish Widows. So she considers this 
suggests that it worked for Scottish  Widows. 
At the time Mrs W received the advice to contract out of SERPS there were, broadly 
speaking, two types of brokers  or advisers   independent financial advisers (IFAs) and 
appointed representatives (ARs). IFAs could advise consumers on the full range of products  
provided by all life insurance companies.  They acted on the consumers behalf and although 
the vast majority were paid by commission from life insurance companies, because  they 
Ref: DRN99239632worked on behalf of their clients  they were agents of their clients and they were liable for the 
advice they gave.
Alternatively, brokers could be ARs of a life insurance company.  That meant they were 
appointed to one life insurance company and could  advise on and arrange policies only with 
that company.  They were  also paid by commission from the life insurance company. But 
because they advised on and arrange the products of only one company they were  
considered to be agents of that life insurance  company. And the life insurance  company took 
responsibility for the advice given by that broker.
In Mrs Ws case,  it seems  from the information  available to me that Firm F was an IFA and 
although it arranged  Mrs Ws APP plan and received commission,  it couldve arranged  an 
APP plan with any life insurance company. Because of its status, Firm F was acting as 
Mrs Ws agent in arranging the plan and is therefore liable for the advice she received; not 
Scottish Widows.
I appreciate that Mrs W says the sale of her husbands plan has been considered. But I cant  
comment on this further as I can only consider the information I have  on her individual  case. 
And having done this, Im satisfied that, despite  the Supreme Court ruling that Mrs W has 
referenced, Scottish  Widows isnt responsible for the advice. And any complaint  about the 
suitability of the plan remains the responsibility  of Firm F. 
Firm F ceased trading many years  ago and given that the advice was given sometime  in 
early 1988,  it seems unlikely that the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  will 
be able to assist.  But Mrs W may wish to contact the FSCS directly  to see if they can help. 
They can be contacted on 0800 678 1100 or 020 7741 4100.
Although I cant review the advice Mrs W received, it may help if I explain a bit of the 
background that led to individuals contracting out of SERPS. 
In the mid 1980s, the Government became concerned about the future long term costs of the 
SERPS so it decided to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS using an APP plan. The 
terms available to contract out meant  that it was very attractive for younger individuals  to 
contract out. And given the economic  climate  at that time,  it was generally considered that 
these individuals  would be better  off by taking an APP.
When contracting out by means of an APP plan first became available in 1988 the terms 
were generally attractive given the economic climate at that time.   Those  individuals  that 
decided to contract out received rebate payments from the Department of Social Security 
that would  be paid directly to the pension provider of their choice. The Government also 
offered an incentive  payment in addition  to the rebate. And it was envisaged that these 
rebates would be invested and would grow to produce a pension in excess of what would be 
received had the individual remained contracted in to SERPS.
However, we now find ourselves in a very different economic climate  to that of the 1980s.  
Investment returns are much  lower than had been  anticipated. So many of the individuals  
that contracted out by means of an APP now find that theyve suffered a loss, relative to the 
position they wouldve been  in had they remained in SERPS.   But the fact that a policy 
hasnt performed as expected doesnt necessarily mean it was unsuitable at that time of 
advice. And we cant use hindsight when reviewing  complaints  we have to consider what 
was known and anticipated at the time the policy was sold. 
Ref: DRN99239633I appreciate that Mrs W will be disappointed  but I dont think  Scottish Widows is responsible 
for the advice she received so I cant comment further on the sale of her plan. But I do hope 
shes found shes found my above  explanation  useful.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9923963