K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance  to 
her alongside  a mortgage in 1988.  
When Mrs W took this mortgage out, BOS  was trading as Halifax. However,  BOS  is 
responsible for complaints like this. So for the rest of this decision, Ill refer to BOS. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. I asked the parties to provide me with any further information and evidence they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
BOS didnt respond. I am most grateful to Mrs W for the clarity in her response and the 
obvious effort she has gone to in providing me with further information.  Helpfully, she was 
able to provide  me with a document  in respect of her long-term disability plan. 
By way of summarising  Mrs Ws response, she said: 
She did have a choice about  buying a PPI policy, but was given the impression that 
her mortgage application  was more  likely  to be successful if she had PPI; 
She would  have been able to rely on the support of a family member  to pay her 
mortgage if lost her job;
It was not clear why the commission rules did not apply to her mortgage  for the years  
before it became regulated.  
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I want to assure Mrs W that I have thought carefully  about the additional information she has 
provided. Having  done that, I am very sorry to disappoint her, but Im afraid  I cannot  uphold 
the complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
I turn first to consider  what  Mrs W said about  the choice she was given about PPI. She told 
us that BOS gave  her the impression that PPI would help her to get her mortgage approved. 
I want to reiterate that Im satisfied that what Mrs W told us is what she honestly remembers 
about the sale. But as I said in my provisional  decision, without any specific information 
about what BOS  said or did to give her that impression, I cant  uphold the complaint on that 
point. 
Ive looked again also at what  Mrs W told us about  her personal circumstances. In my 
provisional decision, I said that PPI could have still been helpful to her even if two thirds  of 
her income were protected after six months. That was because losing a third of her income  
could have had a significant  impact  on her ability to pay her mortgage. 
Ref: DRN91624752Ive carefully considered  the paperwork that Mrs W provided to us. It doesnt  appear that the 
PPI would have  been taken into account as income for the purposes of the long term 
disability plan. I still think that losing a third of her income could have impacted on Mrs Ws 
ability to repay her mortgage at that time. 
Mrs W told us that a family member would have been able to help her if she ran into financial 
trouble. Again, I dont doubt  it would  have been  the intention of that person to help as Mrs W 
told us. But theres  no guarantee  that help would have been available  as and when Mrs W 
needed it. In particular, Ive noted  the reason why the family member didnt apply for the 
mortgage alongside Mrs W, so it seems that persons financial position may not have been 
wholly certain at that time. 
With all of that in mind,  I dont think the complaint about the mis-sale should  be upheld. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W said about commission.  It will probably be helpful for me to 
give a fuller explanation about  regulated  mortgages.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this. 
Mrs W took out her mortgage  in 1988. From the information BOS has provided, Mrs W took 
out a further advance in 2006. BOS  has told us the entire mortgage became regulated at that 
point. Based on what we have seen and what we know about  how BOS  arranged this further 
borrowing, Im satisfied  that Mrs Ws mortgage did become regulated.
As Mrs Ws mortgage  became regulated before 6 April 2008 it was no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act. This means  the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So BOS  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs W paid for the PPI they had with their 
mortgage.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W, but I havent upheld the complaint. I dont require Bank of 
Scotland plc to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN91624753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance to her 
alongside a mortgage  in 1988. 
When Mrs W took this mortgage  out, BOS was trading as Halifax. However,  BOS is responsible for 
complaints like this. So for the rest of this decision, Ill refer to BOS. 
Ref: DRN91624754background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Mrs W didnt agree  with that view. So the 
matter has been passed to me to make  a final decision.  
I want  to acknowledge  at the outset that this complaint has been with us for some time. I am grateful 
to Mrs W for her patience  while we have worked through the what the impact of a recent Supreme 
Court judgment would have on her case. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
As things stand, Im not proposing to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties  agree that PPI was sold to Mrs W during a meeting. I cant know what  was said during 
that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what  Mrs W 
remembers. And Ive also considered the paperwork that is available  from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs W would have known she had a choice about PPI and 
she didnt have to buy it if she didnt  want it. In her PPI questionnaire, Mrs W said that it was implied 
her mortgage  had a better chance of success if she took PPI out. But she hasnt told us precisely 
what BOS  said to give her that impression. 
I can see that Mrs W had to make a separate application  for PPI. So I dont  think shed have thought  it 
was a condition of the mortgage.  I think  it was fairly clear from the paperwork that PPI was a separate 
product. I accept that what Mrs W told us is what she honestly remembers about  the sale. But taking 
everything in the round,  and although  I appreciate this is not what Mrs W now recalls,  I think  she 
probably knew she had a choice about taking this cover  out. 
BOS advised Mrs W to buy this PPI policy. So it had to make sure the cover  was suitable for her 
needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at what  she told us about  her personal 
circumstances at the time. And Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim  on the policy, Mrs Ws mortgage repayments would have 
been covered for up to 24 months if she had an accident, became unwell or if she lost her job. I can 
see that Mrs W would have received  six months  sick pay if shed become unwell. It follows that I think 
the PPI would  have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. 
Mrs W told us and I accept that she had insurance from her employer  which would  have paid her for 
up to two thirds of her salary. Theres very little information about  this policy before  me  and Id 
encourage Mrs W  to provide further details I have asked for below.  But based on what  I have, I think  
that the PPI could have been helpful even if two thirds  of Mrs Ws salary had been covered.  Mrs W 
was the only person  named on her mortgage and so losing one third of her salary could have 
significantly impacted her ability to make  repayments. Its important for me to note that the mortgage 
was secured on her home and so the consequences were serious if she fell behind. 
Mrs W also told us that family members would  have been able to help out if she ran into financial 
trouble. And I dont doubt it would  have  been the intention  of those  family members  to assist  Mrs W in 
those circumstances.  But theres  no guarantee that help would have been available to Mrs W as and 
when she needed  it. 
Mrs W told us that she was in good  health at the time she took the PPI policy out. On that basis, I 
dont think any of the policys  exclusions about medical  conditions would have applied.  And I havent 
Ref: DRN91624755seen anything  unusual about  her employment  circumstances that would have stopped her from 
making a successful claim if she needed to. 
Subject to any further information Mrs W can provide to me, as things stand I think  the PPI was 
probably suitable  for her. 
Even so, BOS still had to give her information about the policy so she could decide for herself  whether 
it was a good  fit for her needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. I accept its 
possible that BOS didnt tell Mrs W everything it should have done about the cover.  But Ive set out 
above how I think it could have been  helpful at what  would  have no doubt been  a worrying time for 
Mrs W if she was out of work.  I dont think more  or better information  would have put her off buying 
the PPI. 
Commission 
Ive also thought  about  whether BOS needs to give to Mrs W some of the commission  she paid with 
her PPI premiums. The Supreme Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mrs Ws mortgage became a regulated 
mortgage before 6 April 2008 those  rules  dont  apply. So BOS  doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs W paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage
Further information 
Before I make my final decision, I can see that Mrs W suggested that she might send us some more  
information about her savings. But we havent received  anything from her. I would strongly  encourage  
her to provide  that if at all possible. It would  also be helpful if she could provide some clarification 
about the insurance policy that she had from her employer. In particular, what  the policy  covered and 
for how long a successful claim would  have been paid.  Supporting documents  would also be very 
helpful. 
my provisional  decision
As things stand, I dont intend  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I now invite all parties  to submit any 
further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider  by 30 April 2019 after which I will issue a final 
decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162475