K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs unhappy about the way TransferWise  Ltd has handled a transfer of money from her 
foreign bank account to her UK bank account and that its now chasing  her for payment of 
the money after it said the transfer was complete. 
background
Ms B authorised TransferWise to debit  700USD  from her foreign bank account for a transfer 
into her UK sterling account. 
TransferWise says it can take several  days for this transfer to clear through  the federal 
automated clearing house system.  Because of this the transfer is marked  as received  before 
the payers money is actually received. But the payment  can bounce if money isnt available  
at the time of posting. 
In this case TransferWise says Ms B authorised it to debit her foreign account with 700USD 
on 22 April 2019. Having  received this authorisation it sent the sterling equivalent to her UK 
account a few hours later. But her payment bounced three days later and it never received 
payment for the transfer. It advised Ms B of this and provided details of how to repay the 
amount. 
Ms B says she closed  her foreign account  and there were no outstanding payments. She 
has refused to repay the amount to TransferWise as she says this was its error.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said TransferWise  sent the 
sterling amount  to Ms Bs UK account  from its own account. But the 700USD wasnt 
available from Ms Bs foreign account and her payment bounced a couple of days  later.
Ms B remains unhappy and says the money was available in her foreign account when the 
transfer request  was made. She no longer has the foreign account and cannot pay the 
700USD which  she thought shed  paid. Shes asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The simple  fact is that TransferWise  sent and credited £535.08 to Ms Bs UK account  from 
its own account and, as the payment from Ms B bounced, it was never paid the 700USD 
from her foreign account. Theres also nothing to suggest this money was ever debited  from 
her foreign  account  and paid to TransferWise.
So, there is clearly a 700USD debt owed by Ms B to TransferWise and I think  its fair for it to 
seek reimbursement of it from her as its done. 
I note TransferWise  has already said it will accept repayment in Sterling rather than USD, 
that it will bear any additional costs and that it will accept instalment payments if Ms B has 
spent the original money in her foreign account which is now closed. I think  that is all 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN97843632Overall I dont think on balance that I can fairly or reasonably require TransferWise to do 
anything more or differently as Ms B would like. And I dont see any compelling  reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9784363