K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (GL) settlement of her furniture 
protection insurance claim. My references to GL include  its agents.
background
Miss H has a furniture protection policy, insured by GL. In August 2017 Miss H claimed for 
an accidental stain on her sofa cushion  covers  which GL had to take away for cleaning.  In 
September 2017 her dog chewed the uncovered cushions. The covers  were cleaned and 
GLs technician attended to refit in October 2017.  Due to the damaged cushion interiors he 
was unable to complete  the job and the cleaned covers were still stained. That resulted in 
Miss H claiming for new sofa cushions.
The new cushions  arrived  in March 2018 but Miss H refused  to have them  fitted as she said 
GL had taken  too long.  She wanted  GL to take the sofa.
Our investigator thought GL should  pay Miss H £150  for her distress and inconvenience due 
to its delay and a fair outcome would  be for the cushions to be fitted. Miss H was concerned 
the new covers colour wouldn't match the rest of the sofa as GL had taken a long time. Our 
investigator couldn't comment as it wasnt possible to know if the new cushions  wouldnt 
match. He told Miss H she could  make a new complaint if there was a colour mis-match. 
The parties agreed and GL paid Miss H the compensation. The cushions were fitted and 
Miss H made this new complaint that the new cushions colour  didnt match the rest of the 
sofa. She still wants GL to remove the sofa and refund the money shes paid for the sofa.
GL said the policy didnt cover fading  or the effect  of sunlight and variations  in batches of 
dyes. The policy  also said where  a part is replaced  the colour match will be within  a 
commercial tolerance.  GL said it had made  a fair settlement of the claim.
Our investigator thought GL had acted  fairly.
Miss H doesnt agree  and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said if GL had cleaned  the 
covers as it should have  done originally there wouldnt be the colour mis-match. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Under the policy GL will pay for:
cleaning, repairs and part or full replacement up to a maximum of £10,000 for damaged  
furniture, or up to the original purchase price  of either article  whichever  is the lower in 
settling any one claim or in total of all claims made during the period of insurance. 
So even if I thought GL hadnt  made  a reasonable settlement of the claim theres no 
provision for GL to take the sofa and refund Miss H. At most GL would need  to replace the 
sofa, subject to the policy limits.
Ref: DRN91699602But I think GL has made  a reasonable settlement. It doesnt need  to replace the sofa or do 
anything further.  
As the covers werent able to be cleaned adequately  (and the dogs damage) GL acted fairly 
in replacing the damaged cushions.
GLs technicians report said the sofa was in Miss Hs conservatory. That would increase the 
sofas exposure to sunlight,  causing  it to fade. The new cushion covers  are unfaded. The 
report says the cushions  will bleach in colour over time to match. Ive no expert opinion to 
the contrary and I think  its more likely than not that the colour on the new cushions will fade. 
But even if the technician is wrong  the policy specifically excludes  issues  relating to fading or 
the effect of sunlight. So GL isnt responsible for a mis-matched colour due to those issues.
Miss H thinks  the main reason for the mis-match  is the time GL took to replace the cushions 
and if it had cleaned  them properly in the first place there wouldnt be the problem. I know in 
August 2017 GLs technician didnt attend  Miss H's home with equipment to clean the covers 
onsite. But even if he had, as the covers  couldnt  be cleaned properly when GL took them 
away to be cleaned, I think  its very unlikely the technician  could  have given them an 
adequate clean with a mobile cleaner onsite. 
The new cushions  were  ordered in October.  It took five months for GL be in a position to 
replace the cushions. Thats too long and GL paid reasonable  compensation for the delay. 
But I dont have any evidence to say that length of time was the reason the colour didnt 
match. Even if there was evidence the policy excludes issues  about variations in batches  of 
dyes.
The policy does say where a part is replaced the colour match  will be within  a commercial  
tolerance, which is reasonable. Ive seen  the photos of the sofa and the colour  on the new 
parts doesnt  look significantly  different. The new cushions may look brighter in colour  which 
Id expect given  the original parts are older  and have faded, which GL isnt responsible  for.
Overall GLs replacement  of the cushions  is a fair settlement of Miss Hs claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9169960