K820x#14This final decision is issued by me, Nimish Patel,  an Ombudsman with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 15 May 2019  (the Provisional Decision) explaining  that 
I was not minded to uphold the complaint  and setting  out my reasons for reaching  those  
provisional conclusions.  I explained that I would consider the parties further  
representations (together with the evidence and arguments submitted before the 
Provisional Decision) before reaching my final decision.  
Neither party made further  submissions.  This is my final decision on Mr Gs complaint.
summary
1. This dispute is about  the sale in 1999  of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
to support  a Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  credit card.
2. Mr G complains that Halifax did not properly explain the policys  features, 
exclusions and limitations. He says that, if it had, he would not have taken the 
policy out.
3. Halifax says Mr G was given a choice  about  whether or not to take out the policy,  that 
the policy was suitable for him and that there were no failings in the sale of the policy 
that affected his decision to buy it.
4. I have carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments submitted by both 
sides, in order  to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
5. This is not a straightforward complaint, with both parties making  credible arguments 
in support  of their positions.  But, for the reasons I explain in detail below, I am 
currently minded  to determine the complaint in favour of Halifax, to the extent  that I 
do not propose making an award  in favour of Mr G.
6. This is my final decision. In summary, based  on the evidence and arguments 
submitted during the course  of the complaint,  my final conclusions  are as follows:
-Mr G made his decision to take out the policy based on advice and information
Halifax gave him about the policy.
-Taking into account the law, industry  codes  of practice and what I consider to 
have been good  practice in 1999 (there were  no applicable statutory 
regulations relating  to the sale of payment protection contracts  like this at the 
time), Halifax should fairly and reasonably have advised Mr G with reasonable 
care and skill. In particular, it should have considered whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs and circumstances. It should  
also fairly and reasonably have provided  Mr G with sufficient clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy it was recommending to him, to enable 
him to make an informed decision about  whether to follow  the recommendation 
and take out the policy.
-Halifax did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G. It did not 
advise Mr G with reasonable  care and skill, in that it did not take sufficient steps 
Ref: DRN96511962to establish whether the policy was suitable  for Mr G (although the policy it 
recommended was ultimately  suitable for him). And it did not provide Mr G with 
all the information  he needed to make an informed decision  about  whether to 
take out the policy.
-Mr G made his decision to take out the policy based on the recommendation 
and incomplete  information.  But, on the evidence available  in this case, if things 
had happened  as they should,  it is more likely than not Mr G would still have 
taken out the policy.
-It would not be fair in those circumstances to make an award to compensate  
Mr G for the money he spent in connection with the policy.
7. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to 
either accept or reject  my decision before XXX.
background to the complaint
a)  events leading up to the complaint
8. In October 1999, Mr G applied  for a Halifax credit card and Credit Card Repayment 
Insurance. Halifax says he did so in one of its branches and that it recommended  
the policy to Mr G. Mr G has not disputed any of this. We have a copy of Mr Gs 
signed Visa  Card  Application  form.
9. The application form included a section headed Product Details.  A cross  was 
printed in the relevant box to indicate  that PPI was to be added.
10. Halifaxs  records show the account started in October 1999. Halifax says the card limit 
was £2,000 and has provided what it says is the first available  statement  showing a 
charge for PPI  of £1.33  dating  back to April 2004.
11. I have not been  provided with a list of all of the transactions  on the account but 
Halifaxs records show  the account  ended in November 2006.  It is not known 
how many PPI premiums  Mr G paid while his account was active.
b)  Mr Gs circumstances  in 1999
12. Mr Gs application form contains  some information about  his circumstances at the 
time. He was 49 years old and had been  living at his address for 26 years. He was 
employed as a machine  operator  earning  £14,000  per year and had been with his 
employer for six years and six months.
13. Separately,  Mr G told us that:
-He was a plant  operator and had worked for his employer  for ten years 
when he applied for the card.
 
-He would have received no more than statutory pay if he was off work due 
to sickness or accident. He did not have any other means of meeting his 
card repayments if he was off work. 
Ref: DRN96511963-He had chickenpox in or around  1977.
c)  the policy  what was Halifax selling  and what  did Mr G buy?
14. Halifax has provided a copy  of the Credit  Card Repayments Cover policy document 
which sets out the full policy terms and conditions which it says  and I accept on the 
balance of probabilities  applied  to policies like the one it sold to Mr G in 1999.
15. The policy terms and conditions were set out in a 14-page booklet. Among other 
things, these show that:
-There  were  eligibility  criteria, which  Mr G met. For example, he had to be at 
least 18 years of age but under  65 and in paid work.
-The policy provided  for payment of the outstanding credit card balance,  up to 
a maximum of £10,000,  in the event of Mr Gs death.
 
-The policy provided  disability cover. Broadly, if Mr G was unable to do his job or 
any similar job (that his experience, education or training reasonably qualified 
him to do) due to a sickness, disease, condition or injury it would pay 10% of the 
outstanding balance  at the start of the disability, up to £11,000 a month. This 
was payable each month  until the end of the policy, the disability came to an 
end, the outstanding balance at the start of the disability  was cleared, or Mr G 
had received  12 payments, whichever came first.
-The policy provided  unemployment benefits. The policy would pay 10% of the 
outstanding balance  at the start of unemployment each month, up to £11,000  
a month, until the end of the policy, Mr G stopped being  unemployed, the 
outstanding balance  at the start of the unemployment was cleared, or Mr G 
had received  12 payments, whichever came first.
-The insurer was Financial Insurance Company Limited, trading as G E 
Financial Insurance.
16. To put the benefit payments into context, I have calculated roughly  what would 
happen to Mr Gs account, assuming he made a successful  disability or 
unemployment claim for 12 months  after spending  £2,000  on his card on purchases.
17. The calculation assumes:  a 1.5% per month  interest  rate (the rate Halifax charged 
for cash advances  according to the card statement dated 6 December 2002), the 
PPI cost 78p per £100  of the outstanding balance; and that the minimum payment 
was 5% of the monthly balance  (or £5, whichever  was higher), as the available card 
statements suggest was the case.
18. It shows that, during  the 12-month  period of the claim, the policy would more than 
cover the contractual  monthly minimum payment  and would clear the outstanding 
account balance in full.
MonthOpening 
balanceSpend PPI InterestInsurance 
paymentClosing 
balanceMinimum 
payment
1 £0.00 £2,000.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £2,000.00 £0.00
Ref: DRN965119642 £2,000.00 £0.00 £14.27 £29.91 £200.00 £1,844.19 £100.00
3 £1,844.19 £0.00 £13.04 £27.58 £200.00 £1,684.81 £92.21
4 £1,684.81 £0.00 £11.78 £25.20 £200.00 £1,521.78 £84.24
5 £1,521.78 £0.00 £10.49 £22.76 £200.00 £1,355.03 £76.09
6 £1,355.03 £0.00 £9.17 £20.27 £200.00 £1,184.47 £67.75
7 £1,184.87 £0.00 £7.82 £17.72 £200.00 £1,010.00 £59.22
8 £1,010.00 £0.00 £6.44 £15.11 £200.00 £831.54 £50.50
9 £831.54 £0.00 £5.02 £12.44 £200.00 £649.00 £41.58
10 £649.00 £0.00 £3.58 £9.71 £200.00 £462.28 £32.45
11 £462.28 £0.00 £2.10 £6.91 £200.00 £271.30 £23.11
12 £271.30 £0.00 £0.59 £4.06 £200.00 £75.94 £13.56
13 £75.94 £0.00 £0.00 £1.14 £77.08 £0.00 £0.00
19. Returning to the policy  terms and conditions, there were also exclusions   for 
example, for disability resulting from:
any sickness,  disease, condition or injury which you knew about or should have 
known about or for which  you received advice, treatment  or counselling  from any 
doctor during the 12 months  before  the start date
20. While  the policy required Mr G to provide satisfactory evidence  of disability to 
make a claim, it did not exclude  back or mental health conditions, or place any 
additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements on claims relating 
to back  and mental health  issues than would have applied to any other disability.
d)  the complaint and Halifaxs  response
21. Mr Gs representative, Wilson Tarquin Ltd, made lengthy and substantial 
representations on his behalf  prior to the Provisional Decision.
22. I will not restate  them all here. Instead  I will refer to some of the specific  
representations made at relevant times  in this decision. But I have read and 
considered them  all carefully. In essence,  Mr G said:
-Halifax did not give him the information  it should have given him about the 
costs and benefits associated with the policy.
-It was not enough to say what the premium was per £100 of the outstanding 
balance as Halifax did. The true costs were  much higher as the premiums were  
added to the account, attracting interest  (which compounded over time), and 
the premiums would continue to be charged  during  the period of a successful 
claim, reducing the benefit. This meant  the policy  was both expensive and 
represented exceptionally poor value.
-Halifax did not tell him about  the poor value of the policy, which is illustrated by 
the low claims  ratio.  Typically less than 20p in every  pound was used to pay 
claims, the rest paid for costs, profits  and commission.  Halifaxs failure to 
explain this to him was a breach of the common law duty of utmost  good  faith.
Ref: DRN96511965-Halifax did not tell him about  the limitations affecting the policy,  in particular: that 
the policy would only pay out if Mr G was unable to do both his own job and 
other work which the insurer  thought  he was reasonably qualified to do; and that 
claims for pre-existing medical conditions, back injury or mental  health  were not 
covered. This reduced the policys  value,  particularly as those conditions are the 
cause of the most common  reasons  for long-term  absence from work. 
-The common law duty of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should have done 
more than simply draw the limitations to his attention, it should also have 
explained the significance of them and the impact they would have on his 
chances of making a claim.
-These were substantial flaws in the sale process. Had he known the true cost 
of the policy, the limits  on the cover and its poor value, he would not have 
taken it out  that would have  been  the logical outcome, given the seriousness 
of the failings.
-In any event, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) guidance at DISP App 
3.6.2 E makes it clear  that it should  be presumed he would not have taken out 
the policy unless  there  is evidence to outweigh the presumption. I am required 
to take that regulatory  guidance  into account  when  deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable and should not depart from it, other  than in exceptional  
circumstances when  there is sufficiently good  reason to take a different 
approach.
-Halifax should pay compensation  to put him in the position  he would have been 
in if he had not taken out the policy.
23. Halifax also provided  us with its submissions before I issued the Provisional Decision. 
In essence Halifax said:
-Mr G was eligible for the cover. For example, he was within the age range and 
was working.
-The policy was suitable  for him and he was not significantly affected by any of 
the policys exclusions and limitations.
-The full cost was, more likely  than not, verbally  explained  to Mr G prior to 
the conclusion  of the sale.
-At the time Mr G bought the policy, there was no requirement  to disclose the 
amount of premium that would be retained  as commission. And because  of 
the dates Mr Gs policy and credit card were  active, it does not have to re-
examine his complaint to establish whether there  was an unfair  relationship 
caused by the non-disclosure of commission.
24. Neither party made any further representations in response  to the Provisional 
Decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN9651196625. I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the 
outset, in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
a)  relevant considerations
26. When considering what is fair and reasonable,  I am required  to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations;  relevant regulators  rules,  guidance and standards;  
relevant codes  of practice;  and where  appropriate, what I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time.
27. This sale took place  in 1999, before the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general  
insurance products like this became regulated by the Financial  Services  Authority 
(FSA) in January 2005. So the GISC  code, the FSAs (and FCAs)  overarching  
Principles for Businesses  and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS)  are not 
applicable to this complaint.
28. The credit agreement itself conclud ed in 2006 .That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  judgment 
in Plevin1 about S140A of that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA 
recently about  the handling of complaints about  the non-discl osure of commission  in 
the light of the Plevin judgment, are not applicable.
29. But there were a number of publications in existence at the time which  I am 
satisfied are applicable  to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular:
The Association  of British  Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practic e for 
all intermediaries  (including  Employees  of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code
30. First introduced in 1989  and updated  in March 1996, the ABI Code set out a 
framework of general principles  within which ABI members and intermediaries 
were expected  to sell general  insurance,  including payment protection  policies like 
this. Among other things it said, that:
 It shall be an overriding obligation of an intermediary at all times to 
conduct business with utmost good  faith and integrity.
 The intermediary shall:
 ensure as far as possible  that the policy proposed  is suitable  to the 
needs and resources of the prospective policyholder.
 explain all the essential provisions of the cover afforded by the policy,  or 
policies, which he is recommending, so as to ensure as far as possible 
that the prospective policyholder understands what he is buying.
 draw attention to any restrictions and exclusions applying  to the policy.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited  [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN96511967Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
31. The ABI also issued guidance  to member  companies on the application  of the ABI
Code and a note summarising the main points  of that guidance.
32. The Guidance Notes for Intermediaries issued in December 1994  included:
When selling  insurance intermediaries must
...2.5 Explain the essential provisions  of the insurance cover,  draw  attention  to any 
restrictions and exclusions under it, as well as the consequences of non-
disclosure
2.13 If an independent intermediary, disclose commission on request
33. The Resume for Intermediaries published  in July 1999,  and relating to the ABI 
Code, explained  how insurers  should interpret some of the key requirements  of the 
code including:
Explain all the essential provisions
It is necessary for the intermediary (insurer, if dealing direct)  to provide an 
overview of the policy.  The detail will vary depending on the particular class of 
insurance. However, the proposer should have a reasonable understanding  of 
what he is buying, whether this is explained  orally or whether he is given a 
summary and his attention drawn to the main points. In this respect, it is important 
to recognise the responsibility under the ABI Statement of General Insurance 
Practice that insurers will work towards clearer policy wordings.
The intermediary is not expected to go through all the provisions and exclusions in 
detail. The important  feature is to identify the level of cover being provided  (for 
example, in the case of household contents  whether it is indemnity or new  for 
old), that the type of policy being sold suits the circumstances of the proposer and 
the level of protection they are seeking as far as possible. It is not good enough 
simply to offer,  for example, an indemnity basis of cover without explaining the 
limitations and, indeed, that other options  are available, unless, of course, the 
proposer wittingly asks for that type of cover.
Draw attention  to any restrictions and exclusions
The same general principles outlined above  apply equally here.  Certain 
exclusions, conditions,  restrictions etc. under a particular  policy  will be common  to 
all policyholders, for example,  a condition about  fraud. In those circumstances, it 
would not be necessary  to identify these  other  than by reference to general 
exclusions applying to all policyholders of a particular type of insurance, either 
orally or in policyholder documentation.
However, some will be more relevant  and, indeed, significant to certain  but not 
other policyholders. An example would be where benefit to self-employed  people 
is either excluded  or severely restricted for redundancy cover under a creditor  
insurance policy. Clearly, self-employed people should be made  aware of this so 
Ref: DRN96511968they can decide whether the other benefits  under the policy and the premium  to be 
paid justifies taking out such a policy.
The ABI Statement  of Practice  for Payment  Protection  Insurance
34. The ABI also published a statement  in December  1996 about PPI. Among 
other things, it said:
Providers will give sufficient detail of the essential provisions of the cover afforded 
by the policy  so as to ensure, as far as is possible, that the prospective insured 
person understands what he/she is buying.
In particular:
the suitability of a contract  will be explained to those who are self-employed, those 
on contract or part time work,  and those with pre-existing medical conditions;
details of the main  features  of the cover as well as important and relevant 
restrictions will be made available and highlighted at the time the insurance is 
taken out with full details  being sent afterwards;
all written material will be clear and not misleading;
full details of the cover will be provided as soon as possible after completion of 
the contract.
35. I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice 
expected of intermediaries  like Halifax at the time.  
36. So I am satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and the other publications into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
Mr Gs case. 
The law
37. I have also taken  account of the law, including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract  (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable  skill, care and diligence);  the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good  faith; and the law relating to causation  and 
remoteness.
38. I have considered carefully  Wilson  Tarquins representations about the law, 
including those set out in its letter about Mr Gs complaint  of 16 July 2018.
The approach taken  by former schemes
39. Under the transitional  provisions2 which continue to apply to complaints like this 
about acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, I am also required to take into 
2 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman
Scheme and Complaints  Scheme) Order  2001 (SI 2001/2326)
Ref: DRN96511969account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case  the Office of 
the Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint.
40. In that respect it is of note that, among other things, under  the Banking 
Ombudsmans terms of reference:
 The Ombudsman was required to decide  complaints by reference to what  was, 
in his opinion  fair in all the circumstances.
 The Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.
 The Ombudsman was required to have regard  to the general principles of 
good banking  practice and any relevant code of practice applicable  to the 
subject matter of the complaint.
 The Ombudsman could make money awards,  but No award shall be of a 
greater amount than in the opinion of the Ombudsman is appropriate  to 
compensate the complainant for loss or damage or inconvenience suffered by 
her by reason  of the acts or omissions  of the Bank against which  the award is 
made.
The FCAs guidance  for firms Handling PPI complaints  - DISP  App 3
41. I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, 
first issued  by the FSA in 2010,  which sets out how firms  should  handle complaints 
relating to the sale of payment  protection contracts like Mr Gs.
42. The sale took place  before insurance mediation became an FSA-regulated activity  
in January  2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the evidential  
provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were  guidance when considering  Mr Gs 
complaint.
43. I note DISP  App 3 includes  guidance  for firms about assessing a complaint  in order 
to establish whether the firms conduct  of the sale fell short of the regulatory and 
legal standards expected at the time of the sale  referred to as breaches or 
failings. It did not impose new, retrospective, expectations about selling standards.
44. DISP App 3 also contains guidance for firms about determining  the way the 
complainant would have acted if a breach or failing by the firm had not occurred. 
In relation  to that it says:
DISP App 3.1.3 G
Where the firm determines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should  
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment protection  
contract in the absence  of that breach  or failing. This appendix establishes 
presumptions for the firm to apply  about  how the complainant would have acted if 
there had instead  been no breach or failing by the firm. The presumptions are:
Ref: DRN965119610(1) for some breaches or failings (see DISP  App 3.6.2 E), the firm 
should presume  that the complainant  would not have bought the 
payment protection contract he bought;  and
(2) for certain  of those  breaches or failings (see DISP App 3.7.7 E), 
where the complainant  bought a single premium payment  
protection contract, the firm may presume  that the complainant  
would have bought  a regular  premium payment protection  contract  
instead of the payment protection  contract  he bought.
DISP App 3.1.4 G
There may also be instances where  a firm concludes after investigation that, 
notwithstanding breaches or failings by the firm, the complainant would 
nevertheless still have proceeded to buy the payment protection  contract he 
bought.
DISP App 3.6.1 E
Where the firm determines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should  
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment protection  
contract in the absence  of that breach  or failing.
DISP App 3.6.2 E
In the absence of evidence to the contrary,  the firm should presume that the 
complainant would not have bought  the payment protection contract he bought if 
the sale was substantially flawed, for example where the firm:
(4) did not disclose to the complainant, in good time before the sale was 
concluded, and in a way that was fair, clear  and not misleading, the 
significant exclusions and limitations, i.e. those that would  tend to 
affect the decisions of customers generally  to buy the policy;
(8) did not disclose to the complainant, in good time before the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was fair, clear  and not misleading, the 
total (not just monthly) cost of the policy separately from any other 
prices (or the basis for calculating it so that the complainant  could 
verify it);
(10) provided misleading or inaccurate  information  about the policy  to 
the complainant;
DISP App 3.6.3 E
Relevant evidence  might include the complainants demands, needs and intentions 
at the time of the sale and any other  relevant evidence, including  any testimony by 
the complainant  about his reasons at the time of the sale for purchasing the 
payment protection contract.
Overall
45. Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems  to me that the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN965119611 If Halifax gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given  his 
needs and circumstances.
 Whether Halifax gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  his attention to and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and the significant 
limitations and exclusions.
 If, having considered  these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider would amount  to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
46. Mr G says Halifax ought fairly  and reasonably to have gone further than I have 
suggested when providing  information.  I shall address Mr Gs representations 
about this later on.
b)  the sale  what actually happened?
47. Not surprisingly given the passage of time since Mr G took out the policy,  it is not 
entirely clear  what information or advice (if any) Halifax  gave  him about it.
48. I note Mr G did not complete the section of the PPIQ that asked how the sale took 
place and whether Halifax advised him to take out the policy. I can understand if that 
is because Mr G does not remember either  way, given the sale took place around 20 
years ago and he may well have paid only brief and passing attention  to it at the 
time.
49. Halifax says the policy  was taken out at one of its branches. It says it advised Mr G to 
buy the policy. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have considered  the 
complaint on the same  basis.
50. Halifax has provided a copy of the credit card application form which  includes  the 
option to take payment protection. Mr G has signed the form and it has also been 
signed in a designated section for Halifax  by one of its employees.  Both signatures  
are dated on the same day. In my view, it is more likely than not that the form was 
completed by Mr G in the presence  of the Halifax employee.
51. On the credit card application form, there was a section entitled Product 
details. Below  this it stated: If you want these services please mark the 
relevant boxes. A box was available for Credit Card Repayment Insurance, 
which was the name  of the payment protection insurance product that Halifax  
offered its customers. There was another box available for Halifax  Card 
Protection. On the form signed  by Mr G, only the box relating to payment 
protection was marked.
52. The mark in the box selecting  payment protection looks to have been pre-populated 
before Mr G signed  the form,  rather than Mr G having made the mark himself.  
Halifax has described the mark as being  pre-populated before the form was printed 
Ref: DRN965119612for signing, stating  that this was most likely to have occurred after there had been  a 
discussion between Mr G and its representative  about PPI.
53. There are no contemporaneous notes from the meeting between Mr G and the 
Halifax representative to help establish what exactly was discussed  about payment 
protection. I consider that is understandable as this sale took place around 20 years 
ago. Halifax states that the policy features and limitations would have been verbally 
explained to Mr G, and that he would have  been provided with appropriate  
documentation in good time before the sale was concluded.
54. The only policy documentation Halifax has submitted as part of this complaint is the 
policy document, which  as I have  mentioned  previously represents the full policy  
terms and conditions. Presumably this would normally have been sent once the 
application for the credit card and payment protection contract had been processed 
and approved,  rather than provided at the meeting.
55. However, even  if the policy document was given to Mr G during his meeting with the 
representative, I consider it unlikely to have played  a part in his decision about 
whether to take out the policy.  That is because the policy  document  represented the 
full policy terms,  rather  than being  a summary of its main features and limitations.  It 
seems unlikely to me that Mr G would have had the time, or have been given the 
opportunity, to look through the entire  booklet  during his meeting with the Halifax  
representative in order to reach  a decision about  whether to take the policy out. He 
would also have needed time to determine, from the information within  the booklet, 
what the more important features of the policy were.  It seems more likely that Mr G 
made his decision  about  taking out the policy  based on the verbal representations  
he was given by the Halifax representative.
56. Having  considered  the representations  of both sides,  and keeping in mind the 
limitations on the evidence available about what happened during a meeting over 
20 years ago, I find:
 While  it is possible Mr G simply filled in the application form without any face-
to-face contact with Halifax, as I have already explained, it is more  likely than 
not that it resulted  from a visit he made to the branch in 1999.
 While  it is possible that Halifax might not have provided any advice to Mr G, it 
is more likely than not that it did  given Halifaxs own representations that it 
recommended the policy to Mr G and the lack of any submissions  from Mr G 
to the contrary.
It is more likely than not that there  were  some discussions  about  the policy 
Halifax was recommending at the meeting between Mr G and the 
representative.
.
 It is more likely than not that the policy document was provided  to Mr G 
after the meeting.
c)  did things happen as they should in 1999?
57. For reasons I shall explain,  I consider it is more likely than not that Halifax  fell short 
of what was reasonably expected of it. Exactly how,  and the extent to which,  Halifax  
Ref: DRN965119613fell short  and its relevance to Mr G, is in my view important to my consideration of 
the question which ultimately lies at the heart of this complaint: would Mr G have 
acted differently if Halifax had advised  and explained things properly?
58. Having considered the evidence from the time of sale and the parties 
representations about  what happened, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that 
Mr G agreed to the policy Halifax  recommended,  knowing that he did not have to 
take it out.
59. In reaching that conclusion, I note the credit card application form invited  Mr G 
to indicate whether or not he wanted  the payment protection insurance, and 
separately whether he also wanted  card protection.
60. A mark was placed in the box that requested payment protection, but not in the card 
protection box. Halifax states  that payment protection  would have  been  chosen by 
Mr G as a result  of a discussion with its representative. It seems to me that the fact 
card protection was not chosen suggests  that Mr G was made aware that the two 
products detailed  in this section  of the form were  both optional.  
61. On the balance  of probabilities, I consider it more likely than not that the adviser 
presented the policy as an optional extra to the credit card,  albeit insurance  the 
adviser recommended Mr G take out. I am not persuaded  it is more likely than not 
that the Halifax adviser incorrectly (or inadvertently) told Mr G he had to agree to the 
policy for the credit card to be approved, or that the insurance was an inseparable 
feature of the card. Overall my conclusion is that Mr G knew that the payment 
protection policy was optional, and that he explicitly agreed to take it out, without 
undue pressure.
62. I have concluded Halifax recommended the policy  to Mr G, so I consider it 
appropriate to consider  whether it advised  Mr G with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and 
circumstances.
63. I cannot  say for certain what steps  Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was 
a suitable recommendation  for Mr G. It seems Mr G cannot remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
policy. This is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during  a meeting. The adviser had 
some limited  information about Mr Gs financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence  to show that the adviser  took steps  to establish  whether  Mr G 
would have been caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might 
have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, there  is nothing  
to suggest Halifax  considered  whether Mr G had any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
64. Overall,  on the balance of probabilities  I am not persuaded that Halifax did all it 
should have  done  to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr G given his 
circumstances. So in that sense,  I am not persuaded  Halifax  advised with reasonable 
care and skill.
65. While  I am not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to determine whether  
the policy was suitable for Mr G, I am satisfied  it is more  likely than not that the policy 
was ultimately suitable for him, given what I am satisfied were Mr Gs needs and 
circumstances at the time. In reaching  that conclusion I have taken into
Ref: DRN965119614consideration:
 Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
 Mr G had a need for the policy. It seems  likely  that Mr Gs ability  to continue  to 
meet his credit  card repayments would have  been put under strain if he were 
not working for an extended period of time given that he was entitled to no 
more than statutory sick pay and had no other means of meeting his card 
repayments if he was disabled  or unemployed.  The policy  would have helped 
Mr G manage the consequences were  he unable to work.
 The monthly cost of the policy, at 78p per £100 of the outstanding balance,  
appears to have been  affordable for Mr G.
 The exclusions and limitations did not make the policy unsuitable for Mr G.
There was nothing about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have
made it difficult for him to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on 
the cover  for mental health or back problems. Regarding pre-existing medical  
conditions, Mr G has told us about  the chickenpox he suffered prior to the sale.  
But I am not persuaded this would  have been a significant consideration for him 
as it had not affected him, or his ability to work, for more  than 20 years before 
the sale. Furthermore, the condition he mentioned does not appear to have 
needed ongoing treatment. 
 While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum  of 12 months for 
each claim for disability or unemployment, it still provided valuable  cover 
given Mr Gs circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared his 
outstanding card balance.
66. I have also considered whether, when providing advice, Halifax gave Mr G sufficient 
information about the cover  provided by the policy to enable him to understand what  
Halifax was recommending to him and make  an informed decision  about whether to 
follow that advice and take out the policy.
67. I am satisfied it is more likely than not that Mr G was given a very broad description 
of what the policy  was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would  protect his 
card payments  in the event he was unable  to work through  disability or 
unemployment). I have reached  this conclusion  because I think Mr G would have 
been told this  at the very least  during the discussion  with the adviser. I think  it is 
unlikely Mr G would  have taken  out the policy without any sense of what the policy 
was. The application form he signed  also described  the policy as Credit Card  
Repayment Insurance, which  would have given him some idea of what  the policy  
was for.
68. But the evidence from the time of the sale does not tell us whether Halifax gave 
sufficient information  about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost (the fact that 
the premiums  would be added to the account balance, attracting  interest  if unpaid  at 
the end of the month, and were payable during a claim)  or about the exclusions  and 
limitations, before Mr G agreed to take out the policy. The limited  evidence there is 
does not suggest  that Halifax  can rely, for example, on a policy  summary set out in 
an accompanying leaflet with the credit card application to deliver that information. If 
Mr G spoke to an adviser, I think it is more likely than not that he based his decision 
on the things  he was told, rather than on anything he was given  particularly as it 
does not seem  likely  that Mr G would have  had an obvious opportunity during a 
Ref: DRN965119615meeting to have  been able to take the time to read and digest the information  in a 
summary before deciding  to take out the policy.
69. While  I am satisfied Halifax probably  sent Mr G the policy  document  which  gave 
information about the benefits,  limitations and exclusions after he applied for it, I do 
not consider that means Halifax gave Mr G the information he fairly and reasonably  
needed to make an informed  decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take out the policy.  I am mindful:
 Mr G did not base  the decision he made during the meeting and discussion to 
take out the policy on the full policy conditions.
 There is nothing to suggest  Mr G was told that he should delay making a 
decision about the policy until he had received and considered the contents of 
the policy document.
 It was for Halifax to provide him with the most important information he 
required to make his decision before he took out the policy  (see the 
information about good practice  I set out earlier).
70. Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while I 
am satisfied that the policy  was a suitable  recommendation for Mr G, I am not 
persuaded Halifax did enough to present information  about  the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable  to Mr G. I am not persuaded
that Halifax  gave Mr G all of the information he needed about  the policy to make 
an informed decision about  whether  to follow the recommendation and take out the 
policy.
71. I have considered how my findings  interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings 
in its guidance  for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP  App 3.
72. I consider it reasonable to conclude that there were significant  failings in this case. 
Halifax did not, for example, disclose  to Mr G before the sale was concluded,  and 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, the significant limitations and 
exclusions that would tend to affect the decision of customers  generally  to take out 
the policy [DISP  App 3.6.2  E (4)]. 
73.Halifax may also have failed to disclose the cost information envisaged at DISP  
App 3.6.2 E (8). Halifax did not refer to how the premium was calculated in the 
application form  a very important  piece of information. It could have made 
clearer the fact that Mr G would continue to be charged premiums  during a claim 
and that the premiums would  attract interest.
74. I have carefully considered Mr Gs arguments  that Halifax should  have  done  more 
than I have  found  it should  have done and provided additional information. I have 
given particular thought to Mr Gs view that the common law duty of utmost  good  faith 
meant that:
 Halifax should have  explained the low claims ratio (and what  he considers to 
be the inherent poor value) and the fact much of the premium  went to Halifax 
rather than the insurer.
 Halifax should have  told him, not just about the limitations and exclusions, 
but also about the significance of them.
Ref: DRN965119616Halifax did have to consider the features of the policy  and weigh up the significance  
of the exclusions  and limitations to ensure the policy  it was recommending  was 
suitable for Mr Gs needs and resources and it also had to explain the features of the 
cover. But I am not persuaded by Mr Gs views about what the duty of utmost good  
faith required.
75. Under the law which  existed at the time, both parties to an insurance  contract  owed a 
duty of utmost  good faith to the other.  By way of summary only,  both parties had 
duties to disclose  material  facts and to refrain from making  material 
misrepresentations to the other.
76. Usually, the focus of any dispute tends to be on the extent of the obligations  the 
duty of utmost  good faith places  on the person seeking insurance to disclose to the 
insurer the information  it needs to determine and calculate the risk it will be taking if 
it agrees  to provide the insurance.
77. But an insurer also has a duty to disclose:
...all facts known to her which are material either to the nature of the risk sought to 
be covered or the recoverability of a claim under the policy  which a prudent insured 
would take into account in deciding  whether  or not to place the risk for which he 
seeks cover  with that insurer.3
78. MacGillivray  on Insurance Law4 explains that the duty does not extend  to giving the 
insured the benefit of the insurers market experience  such as, for instance, that the 
same risk could  be covered  for a lower  premium either by another insurer or, 
presumably, by the same insurer  under  a different type of insurance contract; and 
the insurer is not required to perform the role of the insureds  broker in this regard.
79. I cannot  be certain,  but I think it is unlikely a court  would conclude  an insurer  should 
have disclosed  the claims ratio and value information, or contextualised the 
information about the limitations on disability cover in the way Mr G says Halifax should 
have done by virtue of the duty of utmost good  faith. In any event, I do not think it would 
be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case  to impose such  requirements  on 
Halifax.
80. Halifax was not the insurer in this transaction. Regardless, the ABI Code also 
referred to an overriding  duty on the intermediary  to act with utmost good faith and 
integrity.
81. The Guidance Notes for Intermediaries and the Resume  for Intermediaries about the 
application of the ABI Code,  which I have referred to in this decision, do not refer to 
that duty, or elaborate on what it was intended to mean. But I think  it is unlikely  that it 
was intended  to place a greater, or substantially different, obligation on the 
intermediary to that owed by the insurer.
82. I consider it more  likely than not that the reference to an overriding duty on the 
intermediary was a reminder of the importance  of disclosing material information  to 
3 Banque Keyser Ullmann SA v Skandia (U.K.)  Insurance Co. Ltd [1990] 1Q.B. 665, 772
4 MacGillivray on Insurance  Law 14th edition 17-094
Ref: DRN965119617both the insurer  and the insured (depending on whom the intermediary  was acting 
for), reflecting the legal duty those parties were under.  And it seems likely the 
provisions of the ABI Code were  in effect intended to be practical  examples  of how 
the intermediary might  meet the overarching principles  of utmost good faith and 
integrity as well as expected standards of good practice.
83. I also note there was no expectation at the time, under the provisions of the ABI 
Code, that insurers or intermediaries should  proactively disclose  commission. For 
example, the guidance  to the ABI Code published in December  1994  said only that 
independent intermediaries should disclose commission  on request.
84. Nor do I consider  it can reasonably  be inferred  from the ABI Statement  of Practice  
for Payment Protection Insurance (which  gave further information about the 
expectations in PPI sales) that insurers or intermediaries were expected to disclose 
the kind of information Mr G says Halifax should have done.
 
85. So it seems very unlikely that it was ever the intention of the ABI Code that 
intermediaries should  provide the kind of additional information Mr G suggests it 
should. In any event, I am not of the view that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case to impose a greater,  or substantially different, obligation 
on the intermediary  to that owed by the insurer.
86. Overall,  taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of good practice 
applicable to this complaint, I am not persuaded that Halifax ought fairly and 
reasonably to have provided the additional  information Mr G says it should have 
done.
87. But, for the reasons and in the ways I have set out, I find the information Halifax 
gave Mr G was insufficient.  Halifax failed to explain in a clear way all the features of 
the policy it was recommending,  so the information Mr G based his decision on was 
incomplete. I am not persuaded that was fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances.
d)  what  effect did Halifaxs shortcomings have  on Mr G?
to what extent did Mr G suffer loss or damage as a result?
88. I have found Halifax did not do all it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold this policy  to Mr G, so I have considered whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  Mr G suffered loss and damage as a result.
89. While  I am not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should  have done to 
establish whether the policy it recommended was suitable for Mr G, I have found 
that the policy was ultimately  suitable for him.
90. In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr G has suffered  loss 
or damage in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax had explained 
things properly, Mr G would  have acted differently, or whether he would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
91. Mr G says he would  not have taken out the policy  and I should, in any event, 
presume that he would not have taken  it out given the substantial failings in the sales 
process I have  identified (unless  Halifax can produce evidence to show he would  
Ref: DRN965119618have taken out the policy, which Mr G says it cannot because its failings were  so 
fundamental).
92. I have considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence relating to 
this carefully.
93.  Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer 
to weigh up a number  of factors before deciding whether to proceed.
94. Effectively the consumer has to weigh up the advice to take out the policy,  the cost 
of doing so given  the benefits offered in return and the potential  consequences they 
will suffer if they do not have  insurance,  should the risks come  to fruition.  That is 
why it was for the intermediary  to provide  the information about the policys features 
when recommending the policy, so the consumer could make that assessment.
95.  The evidence  in this case suggests  that Mr G clearly had some  interest  in taking 
out payment protection insurance.  In saying that, I do not mean he actively sought 
insurance or that it was his intention to take out insurance before he applied  for 
the credit card  I have  seen nothing to suggest he did.
96. Rather, I mean when Halifax advised  Mr G that there  was a suitable product he 
could buy that would protect  his credit card payments  in the event  that he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  that resonated  
with him in some way and he concluded that he wanted that product.
97.  The issue here is that the decision Mr G made  about  whether to accept Halifaxs 
recommendation was based  on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly what he got. And he would  have had different things to 
weigh up when deciding to take out the policy if Halifax  had told him everything it 
should have  done  about the policy it was recommending.
98. I consider that, in deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case  and whether Mr G 
suffered loss or damage as a result, the evidence  about the extent to which the 
product differed from what Mr G might reasonably have  expected based on what he 
was told, is relevant to the consideration of what would have happened.
99.  In this case, as I explained earlier, I am satisfied from the evidence about Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable  for him.
100.  While Mr G was interested in the policy, was eligible and had good reason for 
wanting cover, the policy  did not work entirely  as he thought.
101.  Mr Gs own evidence  or testimony  is that he was only entitled to statutory sick pay 
and had no other means to help him meet the credit  card payments along with the 
rest of his usual outgoings.
102.  I think it is reasonable to conclude that, from Mr Gs perspective, he saw some 
benefit in having  insurance,  and it would have been reasonable for Halifax to 
recommend it to him. If the risk the policy was concerned about came to fruition,  the 
policy would help him manage the consequences. It would  help him reduce his 
outgoings during  what would likely be a difficult period. As well as meeting the 
Ref: DRN965119619monthly payments,  the policy would reduce his outstanding credit card balance  each 
month by a significant  amount, as the table I set out earlier in this decision shows, 
clearing the balance if the claim lasted for a year.
103.  In relation to the costs, I cannot see where Halifax told Mr G about an important part of 
the cost information   that the policy cost 78p per £100 of the outstanding balance 
each month.
104.  As Mr G says, Halifax also did not explain that he would continue  to be charged for 
the policy in the event of a claim, or spell out that that the premiums were  added  to 
the account balance  (so would attract interest). On the other hand, there was no 
suggestion the premiums would be paid in some other way, and presumably they 
appeared on his statements, so it is possible Mr G might have expected  this.
105.  Overall I am not persuaded Mr G would have found the cost unacceptable if he had 
been given  complete information  about the cost during the branch visit and 
discussion.
106.  In addition, Halifax might not have made it sufficiently clear exactly  what  Mr G 
would get back  in return if he made  a successful  claim. But as I have said, the 10% 
benefit had the potential to clear the credit card balance in certain circumstances. 
And given the section of the application form Mr G signed described the policy as a 
Credit Card Repayment Insurance I think this is what he would have broadly 
anticipated; if anything, 10% might have been  better  than he expected  if he only 
intended to make the minimum repayment  of 5% of the outstanding balance on the 
card each month.
107.  I am not persuaded Halifax  explained the limitations and exclusions to Mr G either.  
But I do not think  it is more  likely than not that the limitations and exclusions there  
were would have dissuaded Mr G from taking out the policy.
108.  I do not think knowing about  the pre-existing medical condition exclusion and 
limitation would have deterred  Mr G. As I have found, there  is not enough 
evidence to demonstrate  that the condition Mr G suffered with prior to taking out 
the policy  would have been a significant  factor for him at the time of the sale.   
109.  The policy did not exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place any additional 
restrictions or more  onerous evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other disability  claim. And I think it is 
unlikely Mr G would  have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
110. I am not persuaded Halifax told Mr G that any claim he made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  But 12 months was a longer period than Mr G would  have 
received full sick pay or redundancy pay for. It would  also have allowed him time to 
explore other income options, for example to find a new job in the event of an 
unemployment claim.
111. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr G would still have thought a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  have been of benefit to him and 
would help him manage the consequences  should he be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy would help reduce  his outgoings at 
Ref: DRN965119620a difficult and uncertain time and might potentially help preserve any redundancy 
money Mr G might  have received for other use.
112.  So, while Mr G did not know some things about the policy, I am satisfied the ultimate 
position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to what  he would 
reasonably have  thought from any advice and information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable.
113. Possibly the most  significant difference between what  Mr G thought he had bought 
and what he had actually bought concerned him only being able to claim disability 
benefits if he was unable  to do both his own job or any similar job that his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do. If Mr G had known this, it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what he would  have  done  and how this restriction 
might have affected him. And I accept  it might have  given  him pause  for thought  
although it is possible he might  not have been  overly concerned  given that if Mr G 
was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation  the chances that he 
would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
114.  Mr G has provided information in his PPIQ submission to us about what he would 
have done with more information, which I have considered carefully.  He says:
[Halifax] did not explain the terms and conditions of the policy.  
In particular they did not tell me how much  the PPI really costs.  They  didnt explain 
the effects of compound interest being  charged  at credit card rates  which I now 
understand means the balance would  at least triple over a 10 year period  or that 
premiums would continue  during a claim.  I was never given any indication of this 
true cost or how expensive it would really be.
The point being that PPI was usually presented as being cheap  but I now 
understand that it was very expensive. I would not have bought the policy  if I had 
understood this. Wilson Tarquin have further explained that a high proportion of 
reasons anyone is likely to miss work were excluded  in particular  bad backs and 
mental conditions  such  as stress, depression  and anxiety.  These  statistically  are 
among the most likely reasons  for anyone being off work and I can say these 
exclusions were not disclosed to me. 
If [Halifax] had said that they were  excluding the most common  reasons people 
miss work I can say that would not have wanted  this PPI for that reason alone.
This policy was meant to protect me from sickness. It is obvious  that it was never 
going to do what  it was supposed to be for. It was supposed to protect payments if 
you couldnt work but would not have  done  that in a majority of cases.
Let me be clear  I would not have  wanted this policy had I been told this. On top of 
this, I also now understand pre-existing conditions were not covered. This sounds 
like a piece of jargon  to me, but Wilson  Tarquin  have explained what  it meant. I 
have had the following health problems:
Condition: chickenpox, Date: circa  1977,
Ref: DRN965119621On top of this I now understand  that on average, firms kept 86% of each premium  
payment as profit and expenses. The policy was appalling value for money. I am 
not in a position to waste  money  or make insurance businesses richer  at my 
expense. Everybody knows that companies  are entitled to make  a fair profit, but not 
an unfair one  I would  not have wanted  to be taken advantage of. I dont think  
anybody would. 
I dont think this PPI should  have been  sold to me and I would not have wanted it if 
it had been properly explained. Wilson Tarquin say that [Halifax] were  supposed to 
treat me fairly and not take advantage of me, but it cannot be right to sell a product 
like this without explaining  the exclusions, and that they were keeping so much 
money for something with so little value to me. I feel badly let down by [Halifax] . 
115.  Mr G is effectively  saying  that, as a result  of what his representative  Wilson  
Tarquin has told him, both about  what it considers should  have  happened  and 
what he should have decided  at the time, he would not have taken out the policy.
116.  In light of the findings  I have already made,  I do not think  Mr Gs representations 
demonstrate what he claims, because much  of the information he says would 
have affected  his decision  would not have been  known  to him at the time of sale 
if everything had happened as it should, and some  of the things he has 
mentioned would not have  been  relevant to the decision  he was making. For 
example:
 There was no legal,  code, or good  practice  requirement on Halifax  to disclose 
the commission it received.
 I am satisfied the requirement for Halifax in 1999 was to consider the features 
of the policy  and weigh up the significance of the exclusions and limitations to 
ensure the policy  it was recommending was suitable for Mr Gs needs and 
resources. It also had to explain the features of the cover  as I have discussed.
 Mr Gs chickenpox prior to the sale would not  as I have discussed  been  of 
significant concern  to him due to its lack of impact on him and lack of proximity 
to the sale.
 The policy did not  as I have already explained  restrict claims based on 
back or mental health conditions, unless they were pre-existing medical 
conditions.
117.  I am also mindful that: Mr Gs recollections  of the sale are, owing to the 
significant passage of time, likely to be limited;  his representations about what  
he would  have done are made in support of a claim  for compensation; and the 
paragraphs I have  quoted resemble quite closely the consumer representations 
made in other cases where Wilson Tarquin represents the consumer.
118.  In deciding with appropriate information  whether to follow  the recommendation to 
take out the policy, I consider it fair and reasonable to think Mr G would have 
weighed up various  other considerations, in particular  his overall financial 
circumstances and how he would  be affected  if he was not working. It is likely he 
would also have thought about whether  the cost to benefit proposition still worked 
for him.
Ref: DRN965119622119.  Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case  I consider it more  
likely than not that Mr G would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was 
suitable for him, was sufficiently  close to what he thought  he was getting  and 
provided benefits that would  help him manage the consequences if he were made 
unemployed, or unable  to work through disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it 
more likely than not that Mr G would have taken out the policy  in any event.
120.  I have considered  Mr Gs representations about causation  and DISP App 3, 
including the general  opinion of Stephen Knafler  QC, provided by Wilson Tarquin on 
behalf of Mr G. That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration I take 
into account, along with many  other  things, when I decide what  is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable.
121.  I am mindful of the purpose of the guidance.  I do not think  it was ever intended to be 
at odds with the approach I have  taken. The FSA explained  its thinking in the policy  
statement5 at the time:
we have taken  as a starting  point the typical approach in law (which we 
understand also to be the FOSs general  approach) that the customer  should be 
put in the position  they would  have  been in if there had been no failure  to comply 
with its obligations  on the part of the firm. Typically that involves considering  what 
the customer would have done  but for the firms  breach  or failing. Firms have also 
been making such but for judgements  for many years, it being the basic tenet  of 
complaint handling. Complaints about PPI are not new or unusual in this respect. 
We are satisfied that the but for test is a reasonable one in the circumstances.
The presumptions represent a way of judging what a customer  would generally have 
done, in our view.  Having  given due consideration to responses concerning 
presumptions we remain of the view that the presumptions we have set out are 
reasonable ones fully in the tradition of, and informed by, the kinds  of judgements 
that courts and ombudsmen have long and often  been making when assessing 
claims and complaints and the potential need to put the claimant, as far as 
practicable, back in the position they would have been in had the breach  not 
occurred.
We also recognise that it would not be possible  to establish in every case what a 
customer would have  done in every individual  circumstance and that there has to 
be scope for a firm to depart from the presumptions. So, the presumptions  are 
rebuttable  that is, it is open to the firm to evidence that the customer  would 
have bought the policy notwithstanding the breach or failing, in which case  no 
redress will then be required.
122.  It also said:
A recording  of the sale is not essential to rebut  the presumptions. Where it is not 
available, firms must fairly assess the available evidence  to make a decision 
about what they think would have been likely to have happened, but for the 
5 Financial Services Authority Policy Statement 10/12 The assessment and redress  of 
Payment Protection  Insurance  complaints  Feedback on the further  consultation in CP 10/6 
and final Handbook  text  page  44 - 45
Ref: DRN965119623failing, given the circumstances and the evidence from the sale. For example, if 
the firm failed to disclose the existence  of an exclusion relating to pre-existing  
medical conditions,  then it may be reasonable for the firm to rebut  the 
presumption that the customer would not have bought the policy  if it can be 
shown that the customer did not have a pre-existing medical condition. It is 
unlikely that a recording  of the sale would elicit this information. The PPIQ,  if 
properly completed,  will however  provide  this information.
We have carefully considered, in light of responses, the proposed list of substantial  
flaws in the proposed  Handbook text. We are satisfied that the rebuttable  
presumptions cover substantial flaws and that our proposals are appropriate  
because in each  case the nature of the failing raises  serious doubts over whether  
the customer would have proceeded with the purchase if there had not been such a 
failing.
It is true that the presumptions do not make allowance  for the materiality of the 
failings. We consider that the failings amount to substantial  flaws irrespective of 
their materiality to particular consumers, and that it is reasonable and simpler for 
our guidance  not to differentiate the failings  in terms of materiality.  In practice, 
firms are likely  to be able to factor in considerations of materiality  when potentially  
rebutting the presumptions  in the case of a particular complaint. For example if a 
firm failed to disclose an exclusion, and if that exclusion did not apply to that 
customer at the time of the sale (something  which can be evidenced relatively  
straightforwardly with reference to the policy),  it may be reasonable for the firm to 
conclude (assuming there are no other failings)  that the exclusion was not material 
to that customer and that he would have bought the policy  anyway, 
notwithstanding the firms  failure to disclose the exclusion
123.  I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint 
might lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable 
to conclude there were substantial  flaws in the sales process. In those 
circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr G would not have 
bought the payment  protection insurance he bought  unless,  in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption.
124.  I am satisfied, applying DISP  App 3, it is reasonable  to conclude the presumption 
is rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Based on 
the evidence  pertaining to Mr Gs circumstances  I have considered  above  I 
consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr G found himself in as a result  of 
the sale was the same position he would have been in had the breach  or 
significant failings  not occurred.
125.  But even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms set out at DISP 
App 3 (which I do not consider I am), I am doing  so because I do not consider, in 
this case, that it would represent  fair compensation to put Mr G in the position he 
would have been in if he had not bought the policy.
126.  That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr G would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he 
would still have taken out the policy if his needs  had been assessed  correctly and he 
had been given  clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was 
buying.
Ref: DRN965119624127.  I am satisfied it would not be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that Halifax should  pay Mr G redress,  as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in had everything happened  as it should have 
done.
128.  It follows from my findings that, on the balance of probabilities,  it is more  likely than 
not that Mr G would have taken out the policy  if things had happened as they should, 
and that I am not persuaded  he has suffered loss or damage as a consequence of 
the way this policy was sold.
129.  I have thought about whether it would be appropriate to make an award of some kind 
because of the flaws I have identified in the sale process, even though  I have  found  
Mr G would  still have taken  out the policy. I have not seen anything in the evidence
relating to this case  which leads me to conclude that Mr G suffered material  distress  
or inconvenience, or any other form of non-pecuniary financial loss, because  of the 
way the policy was sold. In those circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair to 
make an award.
my final decision
130.  Overall,  having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the 
reasons I have set out in detail above, my final decision is that I do not make  an 
award or direction  in favour of Mr G.
131.  I now ask Mr G to either accept  or reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9651196