K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received in 2016 and 2017 regarding  his pension 
arrangements. Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) is now responsible for that advice 
and, therefore,  for this complaint.
Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, received advice from Quilter around the same  time and has also made  a 
complaint. This decision deals with just Mr Bs complaint. Mrs Bs complaint has been  
considered separately. 
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr B met with Quilter on a number of occasions in late 2016 and early 2017.  
He was subsequently advised by Quilter to transfer the benefits he held in his final salary 
occupational pension scheme  to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). Quilter also 
recommended Mr Bs transferred assets should  be managed in a discretionary fund 
management arrangement.  Mr B accepted  the advice. His pension  was transferred in 
February 2017 and the discretionary fund manager (DFM) appointed shortly  afterwards.   
In 2018, Mr B complained to Quilter. His complaint covered several areas relating primarily 
to fees, service levels and investment performance. Quilter didnt think  it had done anything  
wrong, so Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our investigator concluded that Quilters advice 
to transfer Mr Bs occupational scheme benefits hadnt been  suitable. He upheld  the 
complaint and set out his proposed approach to compensation. As this approach  would have 
compensated Mr B for the problems he originally identified (for example, in relation to the 
fees he paid), the investigator didnt make  any specific findings on those issues. Mr B 
accepted the investigators assessment.
Quilter disagreed with the investigator. It said, in brief, that Mr B hadnt  complained  about  the 
suitability of the transfer itself. So it didnt think we should be looking at this issue  at all. Even 
so, it thinks the advice to transfer was suitable. It asked for an ombudsman to decide on the 
complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I noted that Mr Bs concerns about Quilters fees and service 
levels had also led him to have doubts about  the advice hed been given  a point he made 
when he referred his complaint to us. So I concluded that the advice to transfer was clearly  
part of Mr Bs complaint  and therefore something I could look at. However, I didnt think  the 
advice to transfer was unsuitable. I went on to consider Mr Bs complaint  about fees and 
service levels.  And whilst I thought  Quilter  could have done  better  in some respects, I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
I asked both parties for comments on my provisional  decision. Quilter didnt provide any 
further substantive comments in relation to this complaint. Mr B made a number of points 
which I thank him for.
Ref: DRN96922392my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the avoidance  of doubt, this means 
Ive considered everything Mr B has said and all the evidence he has provided. I will, 
however, limit my findings to those  areas  that impact on the outcome of the complaint.
Is this a complaint  we can look at?
Prior to my provisional decision, Quilter  raised concerns about whether the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could look at the suitability  of Mr Bs advice given his original  complaint  
was about Quilters fees and the overall service it provided. I addressed  these concerns in 
my provisional decision where I referred  to what Mr B wrote  when  he completed a complaint 
questionnaire when he first referred his complaint to us. He said the following:
Are there other documents/ procedures which have not been correctly handled? The 
service we have experienced has left us questioning the basis on which  much  of the advice 
was given & maybe this needs to be independently  reviewed at Intrinsic's  [Quilters] 
expense?
With the above in mind,  I provisionally concluded  that Mr B was concerned  about the 
suitability of the advice hed been given. Quilter didnt provide any substantive  comments in 
relation to my provisional decision. But for the sake  of completeness,  Ive considered this 
issue again. And having looked at Mr Bs comments once  again, my view is unchanged. 
Mr B has questioned the advice he was given so I see no persuasive  reason  for why I would 
exclude Quilters advice from my considerations. 
  
Mr Bs concerns about Quilters submissions and record keeping 
Mr B says there are several inaccuracies in Quilters 7 August 2020  defence  of the 
complaint. Specifically, he points to Quilters reference to him as having  held senior  
management positions at his former employer, as having  had some  experience  in spread 
betting and as being an expert in pensions. He says the first meeting with Quilter was held 
on 14 December 2016 rather  than on 24 December and that one of the reported attendees 
at a meeting wasnt actually present  for that meeting  but was only introduced to Mr and 
Mrs B for 30 seconds whilst they were  leaving. He also says he never  met anyone from the 
compliance department.
For the record, none of the above had a bearing  on my provisional decision. Im satisfied 
Mr B has some  familiarity  with pensions and an understanding of how his occupational 
pension scheme  worked. But this is evident from reading the casefile. I havent assumed this 
based on his level of seniority at his former employer.  And I didnt (and dont) assume  his 
knowledge made Mr B an expert in pensions. Likewise, spread betting  wasnt,  and isnt, a 
factor in my considerations.
As for the date of the first meeting, I think its likely that this is a typographical error on 
Quilters part. Its just one incorrect number, after all. And whilst I acknowledge Mr Bs point 
about Quilter trying  to compress the transfer  timeline to show itself in a better light,  I note 
Quilter did provide the correct date  14 December  2016  in its final response letter to Mr B 
when he first complained.  If it had wanted to manipulate the timeline,  I think its more likely it 
would have done it at this point. Besides, the length  of the timeline hasnt  had an impact on 
my considerations.
Ref: DRN96922393On the issue of meeting attendees, I dont consider this to be significant  to the outcome of 
the complaint  given  the complaint doesnt rest on the individual in question being  at a 
particular meeting. And, on a similar note,  not meeting someone from the compliance 
department isnt a cause  for concern here. I see no reason why Mr B had to meet  someone  
from that department,  and I see no reason  why such a meeting would have  made a 
difference to Quilters  advice or to Mr Bs decision to accept that advice. If anything, a 
meeting with the compliance department would have given Mr B reassurance that Quilter 
had considered its advice compliant  otherwise it would, presumably,  have stopped  it 
going through. So I dont  see why such a meeting would have made  a difference here.  
The Transfer  Value  Analysis (TVA) Report
Mr B has raised a number  of concerns about the TVA report. 
First, he says the document  he was emailed on 10 February 2017 was only 29 pages long 
whereas Quilters August 2020 defence letter points to something far longer. He therefore 
thinks his version of the TVA report is missing  a substantial  amount  of material and that 
Quilter is now relying on that material to defend  its position. 
This can be dealt with quickly. In its defence letter, Quilter refers to a larger  bundle  of 
documents containing all the documents it deemed important for its case. This is the 
document Mr B is now referring to. It includes correspondence with Mr Bs occupational  
pension scheme, the fact-find,  Mr Bs recommendations  report,  emails,  Quilters final 
response to Mr Bs complaint  as well as the TVA report. Quilter  said the TVA report  could 
be found on pages 88 to 116 of the bundle. So the actual size of the TVA report is in line 
with what Mr B has said, with the rest of the document consisting of other documents  
relating to the complaint   documents which Mr B would have seen at the time. It means Im 
satisfied the TVA report sent to Mr B was complete and that Quilter  isnt relying on evidence  
that hasnt been available  to Mr B.
Second, Mr B says the report was emailed to him as just an attachment without any context. 
I disagree. The TVA report explains its purpose  on page 3 so I dont think  it was necessarily 
incumbent on Quilter to also explain its purpose in an email. It also seems likely to me that 
the TVA report was discussed at the meeting on 6 February 2017 because  it was printed 
four days  ahead of that meeting. I dont see why Quilter would have printed the report  ahead 
of a meeting and not discuss it  especially when it emailed it to Mr B afterwards anyway. Of 
course, I dont know for sure what happened  at that meeting, and it may well be that the 
report wasnt mentioned  at all. But, based on the available evidence, I consider it more  likely 
that there  was at least some discussion of the TVA report meaning the emailed version  
didnt land with Mr B without any warning  or context.
The advice to transfer
In my provisional decision I said the advice to transfer was suitable for several  reasons. For 
ease, Ill repeat some of what I said below:
Mr B had suffered from a life-threatening condition  several  years  previously. Whilst 
Mr B has recovered, I think its apparent from reading the case file that he was 
acutely aware of the potential for life to be cut short  and wanted  to plan accordingly. 
In his case, that involved wanting  to ensure as much of his pension   which was 
substantial  was passed on to Mrs B. Notwithstanding this, Mr B was six years older 
Ref: DRN96922394than Mrs B so the potential for him to pass his pension on to Mrs B would have been 
a consideration  for him anyway. 
Mr B wasnt working full-time and wasnt looking for another  extended period of full-
time employment. Rather, he was looking to draw on his benefits in the not-to-distant 
future. And he was looking to use those benefits  to enjoy life and put a difficult period 
behind him. He was also a co-director of a business with his wife and his income 
requirements would have been  dependent, at least to some degree, on the 
performance of that business. So given Mr Bs plans  were imminent,  and would have 
meant unpredictable  income and expenditure in the short to medium  term, an 
income-drawdown type arrangement was a suitable option.
Mr B had concerns  about the future of his pension  scheme.  Often such concerns are 
unfounded or exaggerated  especially given the safety net provided by the PPF. So, 
in itself, this wouldnt  be reason enough  to transfer.  This is perhaps why Quilter  didnt 
focus on the prospects for Mr Bs occupational scheme in its advice. But its clear that 
the parent  company of the scheme  in question was experiencing difficulties around 
the time of the transfer  difficulties that Mr Bs position in the company made him 
acutely aware of. Therefore, whilst the prospects for Mr Bs scheme wouldnt have 
been reason enough  to transfer, its difficult to ignore Mr Bs concerns in this area.
Mr B says the issue of passing on his pension wasnt his primary concern. He considered  
this to be an additional benefit but not reason enough to transfer.  I agree in so far as I dont  
think the ability to pass on a pension in itself would usually  be enough to recommend a 
transfer. But I think it can be an important  reason  for some  people  for instance, those 
whose life expectancy is reduced. I havent  assumed, and dont  assume, Mr B falls into this 
category. But having  read the casefile  once again,  I still think  my comments  on this subject 
are valid.  That is, Mr B appeared to have had an appreciation of the potential for life to be 
cut short  and, in that light, was interested  in protecting what  was a substantial  pension fund. 
So I think it was a valid reason to transfer  in this case. And, as I said in my provisional 
decision and repeat later on, it wasnt the only reason for why transferring  was a suitable  
option for Mr B.
Mr B also says Quilters advice was predicated on a too static assumption of him retiring  at 
55 with Mrs B (who was six years  younger) continuing to work at least in the short term. He 
says he hadnt  definitively decided to give up work and Mrs B may have chosen to retire or 
reduce her hours. He goes on to say that any reduction in Mrs Bs hours would have 
increased the need for him to draw more  heavily on his pension  (in the region of £35,000 per 
annum until Mrs B reached  55 rather than the £20,000 assumed by Quilter)  which,  in turn, 
would deplete the funds available to him to pass on in the event of his death or for his own 
use should he enjoy  a long life. On this last point he says Quilter didnt do enough to 
consider what would happen  if he lived beyond  his normal  life expectancy. 
I think its useful at this point to refer to what the suitability report said with regards to Mr Bs 
objectives:
Have an income of around £20,000 per year in retirement. You want  to be able to take a
flexible income as and when  required. If the profits from the business are sufficient you may
not need to take as much income from your pension. Even if you don't  need it every year,
you want to have the option  to be able to take it.
Ref: DRN96922395[Mrs B] works as a company director and may her reduce hours  once you reach  55 in order  
to take some  holidays and enjoy some  time together.
Although you have  not yet decided, we discussed the possibility of you accessing  some of 
your pension fund at age 55.
So I think Mr B was seeking an income  of £20,000 p.a., did have an interest in taking  
benefits from the age of 55 and did want a degree  of flexibility in terms of exactly how much 
income he took. He was also working on the assumption of Mrs B continuing  to work albeit 
fewer hours. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Quilter to take these factors  into 
account when  it was formulating its advice.  If they werent reasonable, I think  Mr B would 
have queried them  at the time. They arent technical  matters  after all and, as I mentioned  in 
the provisional decision, Mr B did consider the suitability letter in some  detail.  
That said,  its evident from the above  that Mr Bs income requirements had a degree of 
uncertainty and were,  as Mr B has argued, dependent  on Mrs Bs situation. But I think  this 
made a drawdown-type policy a suitable option  because it allows  Mr B to flex his income in a 
way he wouldnt have  been able to do in his occupational scheme.  And its worth  pointing  out 
that his occupational scheme wouldnt have allowed him to take an income  of £35,000 per 
annum. So Mr Bs comments rather support what I said in my provisional decision, which is 
that an income drawdown-type policy was the best way to give Mr B the flexibility he needed. 
I also dont think Quilters  analysis ignored  the possibility of Mr B living to a good  age. The 
TVA report,  mentioned above, had a number of scenarios  for Mr Bs transferred funds which 
included estimates  for the age his fund would potentially  run out. These  scenarios in 
themselves dont make the transfer suitable. Such projections need to be considered 
carefully along with a myriad of other  factors. But on the narrow  complaint point of whether 
Quilter considered Mr B living a long life, Im satisfied  Quilter did take this into consideration.
Of course,  if Mr B was to take more income early on  £35,000 per annum, say, along the 
lines of the scenario mentioned above   then this will reduce the amount available  to take as 
income in later years or for passing  on to others  in the event of death.  In itself, I dont think  
this is a particularly  controversial  notion or one that Mr B can, reasonably, see as being 
unfair. But some detailed modelling of the potential  impact of doing  this could have been 
helpful to Mr B. But its absence isnt reason  enough  to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
To do so, I would need to be persuaded that this alternative scenario was a more  reasonable 
base case, that Mr B made it clear that this was how things were likely to play out, that 
Quilter ignored such statements, and that the cash flow analysis for such  a scenario would 
have produced something that would have  changed Mr Bs mind about the transfer or made 
it unsuitable (beyond just confirming that withdrawing more  early on leaves less for income 
later on and less for passing on to relatives, neither of which  I  think  would  have been  a 
surprise to Mr B). Im satisfied all the above  dont  hold true. For instance, in response  to my 
provisional decision, Mr B has said there was a strong  possibility that he wasnt  planning to 
retire at 55 and, in fact, hasnt needed  to draw  on his pension.  This would seem to indicate  
withdrawing £35,000 per annum wasnt especially likely. 
Mr B also points to the financial  difficulties faced by his previous employer. He says that this 
was the reason why he considered transferring  in the first place. But he questions why 
Quilter recommended the transfer whilst knowing the financial difficulties of a sponsoring 
employer wouldnt necessarily be reason enough to transfer from a final salary  pension 
scheme.
Ref: DRN96922396I agree  with Mr B in so far as the financial difficulties  at a pension schemes sponsoring 
employer wouldnt necessarily be reason enough to make the transfer  suitable.  However,  
there were other reasons  for recommending the transfer which Ive discussed above  and in 
my provisional decision. So even if I take away the difficulties  at his sponsoring employer, Id 
still be satisfied that the transfer was suitable.  
Its also worth noting that financial difficulties at a sponsoring employer can be a valid reason 
for transferring and it would be remiss for an adviser to ignore the issue  completely. Its just 
that advisers sometimes exaggerate such problems, or provide misleading information about 
the protections scheme members  have, in order to encourage  their clients into transferring. 
That doesnt  apply  here. Its evident  Mr Bs former employer  was facing well-publicised  
financial difficulties. Mr Bs concerns  about his former employer pre-dated his engagement  
with Quilter and were,  by his own admission,  the reason why he was looking into transferring 
in the first place. And Mr and Mrs B had a significant  exposure  to the pension scheme (just 
under £1million combined) that they were, understandably,  looking to mitigate.  It also doesnt 
seem to me to be the case that Quilter relied on issues at the sponsoring employer  to make 
its case with regards to Mr Bs transfer  or that it misled him with regards to the protections  
available to him (namely, the PPF). The suitability  letter did refer to the schemes funding 
levels and Mr B is correct to point out that the report didnt give any context about  what  those 
funding levels meant. But reading the report once again, and taking into account Mr Bs 
comments, Im satisfied Quilter didnt  overplay  or mislead Mr B on the issue of his former 
employer.     
Its also evident that Mr and Mrs B wanted to transfer without delay because of events at 
their schemes sponsoring  employer. For example, in relation to Mrs Bs transfer, Mr B 
emailed Quilter on 3 April 2017 to say:  
[Quilter] have still not grasped the need for urgency on our Pension  Transfers,  despite us 
mentioning it at numerous points in the process.
As a result & in anticipation of this [corporate action relating to the sponsoring employer] we 
asked for [Mrs Bs] transfer to be completedby close  of business on 4th April latest; not 
shortly after.
We are extremely  concerned that we are now being  placed in a situation where this may not 
happen, with the resulting risks to us personally & financially. Beyond  the 4th April events are 
no longer with the control of [Quilter]. Perhaps  your Compliance Department could factor that 
into their deliberations.
Again, Im not using Mr Bs words  to justify the transfer. Quilter had to provide  independent  
advice and not just facilitate a clients preferred  course  of action. But I consider Mr Bs 
comments useful context  because they show, at the very least, that Quilter wasnt  driving  the 
discussion in this area. 
Two final points are worth raising here. First,  I recognise  Mr B pointed  me to the chaser 
email quoted above to show that his motivation  for transferring was primarily because of his 
concerns about  his former employer. His point  being that if one takes  away  this as being a 
valid reason for transferring then the overall justification for transferring becomes, in his 
view, very thin indeed. My view is that the rationale for transferring is stronger than Mr B 
argues  a point I made above  and in my provisional decision. Second, the chaser email 
gives an insight into the urgency of the situation.  This is important because Mr B says it 
Ref: DRN96922397would have been better to have waited until he was 55 before taking any action. His says his 
situation could  have been reviewed then. Its a valid argument, especially given some of the 
uncertainty in his plans. But against this, its evident  Mr B didnt want  to wait and if a delay 
was likely, I think Mr B would have taken alternative  action  in order  to ensure a timely  
transfer.   
Mr Bs email to Quilter  on 12 February  2017 
Mr B emailed Quilter on 12 February  2017 to confirm he wanted  to proceed with the transfer 
and to explain the reasons why he wanted  to do so. In my provisional decision, I said this 
showed Mr B had a good understanding of the advice hed been given and showed that the 
advice had been anchored in Mr Bs needs and preferences. I concluded  that this supported 
Quilters case, although I stopped short of saying the email showed  the advice had been 
suitable. I said:
Quilter asked Mr B to write the email  because it wanted reassurance  that he understood its 
advice. So there is an argument that Mr B just reflected back Quilters  advice. Seen in this 
light, the email isnt evidence of the suitability of the advice. It just shows Mr Bs agreement 
with Quilters recommendations,  which is perhaps  not that surprising  I think  most people 
would accept professional advice that theyre  paying for. Furthermore, it looks  like Mr B 
might have gone to Quilter because he already wanted to transfer. This makes it even less 
surprising that he accepted Quilters  advice to do just that. 
With this in mind,  I dont  think  the email is evidence, in itself, of the suitability  of Quilters 
advice. What it does  do is confirm Mr B had a genuine interest in passing on his pension  to 
Mrs B and wanted flexibility with regards to taking income. So Im satisfied the email does at 
least show Quilters advice  was anchored in Mr Bs preferences even if it doesnt necessarily 
prove its advice was suitable. The email  also shows Mr B had a good understanding  of what  
he was doing  and even had reasons for why he wanted to transfer  beyond  those provided by 
Quilter (including historically  high transfer values and his inside-knowledge of his employer).  
In response, Mr B confirms that Quilter asked him to provide  the email.  He has also provided 
sample letters and emails that Quilter sent to him to help him draft his own email. The 
samples are from previous clients who had also transferred. The point Mr B is making is the 
one I referred to above and in my provisional  decision, which  is that he was just repeating 
back Quilters  advice  and that the email was just part of Quilters standard process designed,  
in his view, to help it to defend itself against future accusations of poor advice.
Mr B is right to call out Quilters  approach  here. Asking Mr B to confirm why he wanted to 
transfer and giving him examples of what it considered to be good does strike me as being 
designed to lead a client into a position where making a complaint becomes more difficult.
However, having re-read Mr Bs email, it still seems  to me that its an authentic 
representation of what Mr B was thinking  at that time. The email  is relatively  personal  in tone 
in that it reflects  upon Mr Bs previous  health problems, the death of his father  and Mrs Bs 
father, redundancy, the demands of dealing with all this and his desire to enjoy life. 
Therefore, whilst I take on board the fact that he was asked to write  the email  by Quilter, and 
there was an element  of guidance in terms of its content, I still think the email provides an 
insight into what Mr B considered important  at that point in time and shows  he had a good 
understanding of the advice hed been  given. As I said before, the email doesnt  prove  the 
advice was suitable. But it shows Quilters advice was grounded in Mr Bs genuine thoughts 
about how he wanted to manage his life.
Ref: DRN96922398Risk Classification 
In the suitability report Mr Bs attitude  to risk was reported as being adventurous according 
to a questionnaire  he was said to have completed. This was the highest  risk category under 
Quilters framework. This was then said to have been reduced to dynamic, the second 
most adventurous category,  after discussion. Mr B was then classified as being  in the 
diversified risk category according to his DFM, which was the DFMs  middle category out of 
five. 
Mr B raises  three points  in relation to all this. One, having two different risk classifications 
caused unnecessary  confusion. Two, my provisional  decision to not uphold the complaint 
was influenced  by Quilters original attitude to risk assessment. Three, an equity-heavy 
portfolio was inappropriate given an intended  retirement age of 55.
I agree  with Mr B that the different risk classifications  organisations use, and the mapping 
between them, can lead to confusion.  However, Quilter and his DFM  are separate 
organisations so it is their prerogative to assess their clients  as they see fit. I cant force  
uniformity upon them. 
On the second  point,  Mr B says Quilter  overstated his tolerance for risk and that this could 
have given a misleading impression of the returns he was likely to achieve.  He says 
considerations about the likelihood of beating  the critical yield could have been impacted  as 
a result.  In response, I think its worth noting how his DFM  described  the diversified 
category:
You are prepared to have the significant  majority of your investments in equities in order  to 
achieve higher  returns  at the expense of greater risk to the capital.  The portfolio will typically 
have a substantially higher weighting  towards  equities than fixed  income investments 
and is likely to have  moderate market volatility. [my emphasis]
Given both Quilter and the DFM categorised Mr B as being comfortable with a high exposure 
to equities, I dont consider it likely that Mr B was substantially more cautious  than recorded 
in the documents from the time. It also seems to me that Mr B would have raised objections 
to the categorisation of his risk tolerance if it really  had been too high. So my original point 
stands. Mr Bs attitude to risk, and the portfolio  selected by his DFM,  was such that he could  
have expected returns over the longer term that made beating the critical yield a more 
realistic prospect than it otherwise would have  been.  As I said before, this isnt the same as 
saying Mr B will beat the critical yield, just that the critical yield doesnt, in this case, rule out 
the possibility  of the transfer being suitable.  
Mr Bs third point is that the equity weighting in his portfolio was too high given his imminent 
retirement at age 55. I disagree. If Mr B was planning on buying,  say, an annuity  at 55 then it 
would have been too risky to have been heavily invested in equities in the run-up to that 
point. A market fall would have resulted in Mr B having less funds to buy the annuity leaving 
him locked  into a lower  retirement income  for life as a result. But this wasnt  what Mr B was 
planning to do. He was planning to take income  as and when  he needed to with the 
remainder of his pension invested  for the next, 5, 10, 15 years or more. The appropriate 
investment strategy  for those residual  funds is something for regular review. But there  wasnt 
a need for those  funds to be realised in the short term meaning Mr B had flexibility  in terms 
of how they were invested. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr B has pointed out that he hasnt needed to touch 
Ref: DRN96922399his pension and has no immediate plans to do so. He has said this to support his argument  
that Quilter didnt do enough  to consider the possibility of him not drawing his pension at the 
age of 55. But in emphasising the importance  of not needing to draw on his pension, Mr B 
has weakened his argument that his investment strategy was too risky for someone a couple 
of years away from drawing benefits.  He has also weakened  the argument  that Quilter  
should have done more  to consider  the potential need for him to take an income  of £35,000  
per annum  because that higher income  need  doesnt appear to have been  a strong 
possibility. My point here isnt to dismiss these arguments as a result.  Ive dealt with them on 
their own individual  merits earlier. My point here is to highlight the very different scenarios 
Mr B was facing at the time of his advice which, to my mind, made a drawdown-type policy  a 
suitable option because it would have  allowed  him, and has allowed him, to flex his income  
in a way he wouldnt  otherwise have  been able to do.
Charges
Quilter charged 1% p.a. for its ongoing  review service which involved a review  meeting every 
six months. The charge  was levied on a monthly basis.  The first review took place in June 
2017 and the second the following January.
Mr B says he wasnt aware, didnt agree to (and wouldnt have agreed to), a fee being  
charged in the first year given his situation was unlikely to have warranted a significant 
change in approach in that time. And he says there  was nothing  to show  the charge would 
be levied  every month. 
On the first point, I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling  on this. And I agree there was some  
ambiguity because the advice letter just said the reviews would commence  after  this 
transfer has settled without specifying exactly how long after the transfer the first review 
would be. However,  the review did take place in June 2017. And in that review, the next 
review was arranged  for six months later and, indeed,  that review  also took place. So I dont 
feel it wold be fair to ask Quilter to compensate Mr B for the fees he paid for a service that 
he was apparently happy to receive, and did receive, at the time. 
On the second  point,  I still havent  seen anything to show why Mr B would have lost out 
financially from paying 1/12 of his 1% charge on a rolling monthly basis  rather than, say, in 
one go on an annual  basis  (other than having to pay the fee at all  which Ive addressed in 
the paragraph above). So my view remains as it was before  that is, there  isnt reason 
enough to uphold Mr Bs complaint on this point.  
Ref: DRN969223910Mr B has also mentioned the fact Quilter asked  him in April 2018  for authorisation to transfer 
funds from his SIPP in order  to pay for fees with the original float  set aside for this having 
run out by that point. That authorisation wasnt given but the transfer of funds  happened  
anyway. Ive covered  this point in my provisional decision and having considered everything 
again, including Mr Bs comments, I dont think there  is anything  I can usefully add to what 
Ive already said, which was that it appears as though Mr Bs SIPP  provider moved his funds 
in line with its terms and conditions for situations when there are insufficient funds in a SIPP  
to pay fees. As such, this wouldnt be a reason to uphold  a complaint against Quilter.
I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling  on all these issues. Ive considered all his points very 
carefully. However, it follows from the above that I will not be upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN969223911COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received in 2016  and 2017 regarding his pension 
arrangements. His adviser worked  for Financial Options Group at the time which was a trading  name  
of CJP Financial Services Ltd, itself an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd. 
This made  Intrinsic responsible for Mr Bs advice, and therefore Mr Bs complaint.  Intrinsic has since 
been rebranded as Quilter  Financial Services Ltd so, for ease,  I will refer to Quilter in my decision.
Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, received advice  from Quilter around the same  time and has also made  a 
complaint. This decision deals with just Mr Bs complaint.  Mrs Bs complaint has been considered 
separately. 
background
Mr B met with Quilter on a number of occasions  in late 2016 and early 2017.  He was subsequently 
advised by Quilter to transfer the benefits he held in his final salary  occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Quilter also recommended Mr Bs transferred assets should 
be managed  in a discretionary fund management arrangement. Mr B accepted the advice. His 
pension was transferred in February  2017 and the discretionary fund manager  (DFM) appointed 
shortly afterwards.  
In 2018, Mr B complained  to Quilter. His complaint covered several areas relating  primarily  to fees, 
service levels  and investment performance. Quilter didnt think it had done anything  wrong, so Mr B 
referred his complaint to us. Our investigator concluded that Quilters  advice to transfer Mr Bs 
occupational scheme benefits hadnt been suitable. He upheld the complaint  and set out his proposed 
approach to compensation. As this approach would  have  compensated  Mr B for the problems he 
originally identified  (for example, in relation to the fees he paid),  the investigator didnt make any 
specific findings on those  issues. Mr B accepted the investigators findings.
Quilter disagreed with the investigator. It said, in brief, that Mr B hadnt complained about the transfer 
itself. So it doesnt think we should be looking  at this issue  at all. Even so, it thinks  the advice  to 
transfer was suitable. It asked for an ombudsman to decide on the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr Bs complaint points
Mr Bs complaint covered  several areas. I address those concerns below. But, before I do so, its 
worth covering a further  point of contention between the parties. This relates  to Mr Bs occupational 
scheme and whether he should have transferred the cash value of the benefits  he held in that scheme  
to a SIPP.  It has become an issue because our investigator said Quilter should  have advised against 
this course of action and Mr B now thinks similarly  or at least has agreed  with the investigators 
findings  despite not complaining about this originally. Quilter  is concerned that we have considered 
an area that Mr B never previously expressed any concern or doubt about. 
This service is required to do more than just look at a complaint as its written or explained to us. We 
must think about what lies at the heart of a complaint and look at the whole picture. This approach 
was recognised in court in R (Williams) v Financial  Ombudsman  Service [2008]  EWHC 2142: 
"The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action.  His jurisdiction is inquisitorial  not 
adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can operate."
Ref: DRN969223912One of Mr Bs complaint points related to his DFM,  in particular the potential  for his DFM to cause Mr 
Bs portfolio  to record sharp falls in the run-up to retirement.  It seems to me that the advice that led 
him to that position in the first place   that is, advice that resulted in him giving up a guaranteed, 
regular, pension in favour of a potentially  more volatile  SIPP/DFM arrangement  is legitimately part 
of Mr Bs concerns here. Furthermore, when Mr B referred his complaint on to us, he himself widened  
out his concerns to the advice process as a whole:
Are there  other documents/ procedures  which have not been correctly handled? The service we have 
experienced has left us questioning the basis on which much  of the advice was given & maybe this 
needs to be independently reviewed at Intrinsic's expense?
In this context, we wouldnt have been investigating Mr Bs concerns  properly  if we hadnt looked at 
the advice process as a whole; its what Mr B asked us to do. Im satisfied,  therefore,  that we can look 
at the issue of Mr Bs occupational scheme benefits and how they came to be transferred. 
I note Quilters point about the procedural unfairness  of it not having  the opportunity to investigate  the 
suitability of the transfer  before  the issue was referred to us. However, Im satisfied this isnt now a 
live issue given Quilter has had several  opportunities to respond  to the investigators findings  (and, 
indeed, will have the opportunity to respond to this provisional decision). 
The advice to transfer  
Mr B met with Quilter on 14 December 2016 and on 13 January 2017,  after which a client summary 
was produced  which  recorded some  key points about Mr Bs financial circumstances and preferences. 
Quilter also says an attitude-to-risk questionnaire was completed. It has provided  us with Mr Bs 
answers to this questionnaire  although  Mr B disputes it was ever completed.  Either  way, its not 
critical to the outcome of the complaint for reasons  that I will come on to later.  
Quilters advice letter  was dated 17 January, so just after the second meeting.  It looks like its contents  
werent discussed  (or provided to Mr B) until a third meeting held on 6 February. A transfer analysis 
report, which  provided some  of the calculations used in the advice  letter, was also provided as part of 
that 6 February meeting.  
The advice letter said  in brief  the following:
Mr B was 52 years  old, not actively at work and in reasonable health. 
Mr B had £55,000 in ISAs and £14,000 in a SIPP. His deferred benefits in a final salary 
occupational scheme had a substantial transfer value. He and Mrs B also had a house with a 
relatively small mortgage.
Mr B was said to be looking to retire at 55 with a retirement  income in the region of £20,000 
p.a. He was also said to be looking for a plan that allowed him to withdraw lump  sums when  
required and allowed his pension  to be passed on to Mrs B in the event of his death.
Mr Bs attitude-to-risk  was recorded as being adventurous but, following discussion,  he was 
assessed as being a more risk-averse dynamic investor for the purposes of Quilters  advice 
(although a dynamic investor was still the second  most adventurous category under Quilters  
framework). 
If Mr B transferred to a personal pension  arrangement, the returns needed to maintain the 
same benefit levels  as before were said to be unlikely to be achievable.  The so-called 
critical yield was calculated as being 5.71% p.a. (assuming a retirement  age of 65 and tax-
free cash  was taken) and 7.2% p.a. (same retirement age but with no tax-free cash),  both of 
which were said to be above the mid-rate  figure used when making assumptions  about 
Ref: DRN969223913future investment returns. A further critical  yield of 5.15% p.a. was also calculated  based on 
Mr Bs occupational scheme having to enter the Pension  Protection  Fund (PPF).
Despite the critical yield, Mr B was advised to transfer because  it would allow him to pass  on 
his pension to Mrs B and to manage his income  in the way he wanted.  His new plan was also 
said to be modern with explicit  charges.   
Mr B was advised  to transfer his occupational scheme benefits  to an Old Mutual Wealth  SIPP 
and advised to use Brewin  Dolphin  as his DFM. 
The advice letter also contained a number  of risk warnings, fee schedules and other notes  and 
questions for Mr B to consider. The letter also said three other  documents had been provided  a 
product brochure, a key features document and a personalised illustration.  
Quilter asked Mr B to confirm he had understood its advice and explain why he wanted to proceed 
with the transfer. Mr B did this in an email dated 12 February 2017,  in which he said he wanted to 
transfer to facilitate a change  in his lifestyle, to allow  his pension to be passed on to Mrs B, because  
he had concerns about  the viability of his occupational  scheme  and because transfer values were at 
historic highs. 
Mr Bs pension was transferred on 22 February and the discretionary portfolio established shortly 
after. 
Our investigator concluded Quilters advice  to transfer was unsuitable. He didnt think  Mr Bs concerns 
about the viability of his occupational  scheme (which wasnt given as a rationale for transferring in 
Quilters advice letter  but was a concern for Mr B) were a valid reason for transferring given the 
funding levels of the scheme werent  especially  problematic  and the PPF provided  a safety net 
anyway. He also didnt think that the death benefits afforded by the SIPP   specifically the ability for 
Mr B to pass on his pension  to Mrs B in the event of his death  would have  necessarily been an 
improvement given Mrs B had her own pension entitlement and would have received a 50% spouses 
benefit if Mr B had died whilst still a member of his occupational scheme. And he said Mr Bs health 
concerns looked to have been behind  him making death  benefits  less of a pressing concern. 
The investigator also discussed  the critical  yield figures  calculated by Quilter.  His view was that Mr B 
would have needed a reasonable prospect of achieving a better pension by transferring  for the advice 
to have been  suitable. The critical  yields showed that this wasnt a reasonable  prospect. 
Finally, the investigator  didnt put much weight on the greater flexibility  the SIPP provided in relation to 
drawing income. He pointed out that Mr Bs most pressing need appeared to be an annual  income of 
£20,000 which suggested predictability rather than flexibility was his main  concern. He also remarked 
that Mr Bs occupational pension was just that  a pension. In that light it should have been  viewed as 
a guaranteed, regular income for life rather than as a source of funds for other purposes.
In response to all this, Quilter said Mr B didnt complain  about  the transfer so its unfair  to look at it 
now and unnecessary anyway given Mr Bs apparent satisfaction with this aspect of its advice. It also 
says the advice to transfer was suitable for the reasons  it gave in its advice  letter. Quilter also pointed 
to the email Mr B wrote on 12 February saying he had understood  the advice, had taken  on board its 
implications and had decided to proceed with the transfer after weighing up all the pros and cons  of 
doing so. On the issue  of the critical  yield, Quilter said Mr B had been made  aware of the returns he 
would have needed to achieve and was in a position to (and did) make an informed decision.
Ive covered the issue of whether we can look at the transfer already.  But in relation to the suitability 
of the advice  that led to the transfer, I can see both sides of the argument here.  Ordinarily, a critical  
yield that appears difficult to achieve  which  is the case here  would be reason enough  to advise 
against a transfer. Put simply, if there isnt a reasonable prospect of an individual achieving a better  
pension by transferring (and, by implication, a reasonable chance of that individual ending  up with a 
worse pension) then there would seem little point in proceeding. Added  to this is the regulatory  
Ref: DRN969223914presumption that transferring isnt advisable (COBS 19.1.6). So the bar here is high. The rationale for 
transferring would need  to be strong. 
However, after careful consideration, Im satisfied the advice was suitable. This is because:
Mr B had suffered  from a life-threatening condition several years previously. Whilst  Mr B has 
recovered, I think its apparent from reading the case file that he was acutely aware of the 
potential for life to be cut short and wanted to plan accordingly. In his case, that involved 
wanting to ensure as much of his pension   which was substantial  was passed on to Mrs B. 
Notwithstanding this, Mr B was six years older than Mrs B so the potential  for him to pass  his 
pension on to Mrs B would have been a consideration for him anyway. 
Mr B wasnt working full-time and wasnt looking for another extended period of full-time  
employment. Rather, he was looking to draw on his benefits in the not-to-distant future. And 
he was looking to use those  benefits to enjoy life and put a difficult  period behind  him. He was 
also a co-director of a business with his wife and his income requirements  would have been 
dependent, at least to some degree,  on the performance of that business. So given Mr Bs 
plans were  imminent, and would have meant unpredictable income  and expenditure  in the 
short to medium term, an income-drawdown  type arrangement was a suitable option.
Mr B had concerns about the future of his pension scheme. Often such  concerns  are 
unfounded or exaggerated  especially given the safety  net provided  by the PPF.  So, in itself, 
this wouldnt be reason enough to transfer.  This is perhaps  why Quilter didnt focus on the 
prospects for Mr Bs occupational scheme in its advice. But its clear that the parent company  
of the scheme in question was experiencing difficulties around the time of the transfer  
difficulties that Mr Bs position in the company made him acutely  aware of. Therefore, whilst  
the prospects for Mr Bs scheme  wouldnt have been reason enough  to transfer, its difficult to 
ignore Mr Bs concerns  in this area.
As our investigator pointed out, there are a number  of valid counter-arguments to the above. Ive 
considered these carefully. In particular,  the critical  yield was challenging. It was calculated as being 
5.71% p.a. assuming Mr B took his benefits  at the age of 65 along  with his tax-free cash lump sum. 
This is higher  than the 4.1% p.a. that the regulator assumed would have been an achievable  return at 
that time (based  on its guidance for calculating compensation in pension review cases). However,  
Mr B was assessed  as having  a dynamic attitude to risk. As such  I think  he could, reasonably, have 
expected higher returns over the longer  term than the regulators assumption which assumed a 
maximum equity weighting  of 50%. Mr Bs portfolio started off with an equity weighting of 66%. So, all 
things considered, I think it reasonable to say the gap between  expected returns  and the critical yield 
was narrower than it first appeared. This is especially  so given Mr Bs plans  to take benefits  from the 
age of 55. The critical yield in this scenario was 4.81%  p.a. 
I note that Mr B said he didnt complete an attitude-to-risk  questionnaire.  However, the output from 
that questionnaire was disregarded for the purposes of Mr Bs advice, as indicated  by the following  
passage in the advice  letter:
The outcome of the profiler showed that you are an adventurous investor. However we discussed 
your circumstances in relation to the principles of risk and reward in respect of your pension planning  
both near and in the long term and agreed your risk profile is dynamic.  You feel comfortable with this 
level of risk, in relation to your pension  provisions.  We discussed the potential returns  of the different 
levels of investment risk, and although not guaranteed you are happy  with the potential  returns  for a 
dynamic investor. You are likely to start drawing from your pension as early as age 55, and feel that 
as you have  2 and a half years left before then you want to take a high level of risk, in order to have 
the potential for higher returns but not a 100% investment  into global equities.
In Mr Bs complaint to Quilter, he says he was disappointed in having  to take the advice  letter away 
for consideration after the 6 February meeting because he would  have wanted to have seen  the letter 
ahead of that meeting given it was written several  weeks beforehand. Nevertheless, Mr B said he did 
Ref: DRN969223915review the letter and picked  up on mistakes in it. I think this shows Mr B must have been comfortable 
with being classed as a dynamic investor because he reviewed the advice letter carefully and would, 
likely, have  queried  something as important as this if it had been incorrect. 
That said, I dont think I can safely say Mr B would, likely, have improved  his pension benefits by 
transferring. Its just that his attitude-to-risk does make the issue more  balanced.  And I think this, in 
conjunction with the other reasons behind  Mr Bs transfer  listed above  makes the advice to 
transfer suitable on this occasion. 
Quilter also points to the email Mr B sent to it on 12 February  to support its case. The email said, 
amongst other things, the following:
Many thanks  for forwarding  the detailed  Suitability Report which I confirm  I have read and fully 
understood. I have no further questions before we proceed  with the transfer.
The age difference between us [with Mrs B] & fact that we currently  have no dependents means that 
upon my death my Pension pot would effectively end, aside from the 50% guaranteed  spouses 
pension (circa £8,952). So there is a benefit in moving  my pension arrangements to a SIPP where my 
wife could  manage  the funds  received via my SIPP on death for her/any family benefits.  In this regard  
we are taking  professional advice at present as to how we can pass down our Pension & other assets 
to beneficiaries after my/my wife's death through the creation of Trusts etc. So the intention  is create a 
lasting legacy that would  not be possible  on the pension element if we stayed  in [Mr Bs occupational 
scheme].
Our former employerstill  faces an uncertain future. Recent press speculation & our own knowledge 
of the company suggests [it] could be wound up during  2017if  a buyer  does not come forward.  This 
threatens the viability  of [Mr Bs occupational  scheme]. Whilst our Pensions are protected (confirmed 
in Suitability Letter) we would rather be in control of events  should the worst happen rather than 
responding to them at some  future date.
The attraction of the flexibility that the SIPP provides, especially in light of my desire to follow  a new 
course in my life, far outweighs  any potential  pitfalls for me. It is not my intention  to call on the main 
element of the pension for a while as you cover in the report & my wife's  earnings will help ensure our 
income will cover outgoings.
Quilter says the email  made it feel comfortable that its advice to transfer was suitable. However,  
Quilter asked Mr B to write the email because it wanted reassurance that he understood its advice. So 
there is an argument that Mr B just reflected back Quilters advice.  Seen in this light,  the email isnt 
evidence of the suitability  of the advice. It just shows  Mr Bs agreement with Quilters 
recommendations, which is perhaps not that surprising   I think  most people  would accept  
professional advice that theyre paying for. Furthermore, it looks like Mr B might have gone to Quilter 
because he already wanted  to transfer.  This makes it even less surprising that he accepted Quilters 
advice to do just that. 
With this in mind, I dont think the email is evidence, in itself, of the suitability of Quilters advice.  What 
it does do is confirm Mr B had a genuine interest in passing on his pension to Mrs B and wanted 
flexibility with regards to taking income. So Im satisfied the email does at least show Quilters  advice 
was anchored  in Mr Bs preferences even if it doesnt necessarily prove its advice was suitable. The 
email also shows Mr B had a good understanding of what he was doing and even  had reasons for 
why he wanted to transfer beyond those provided by Quilter (including historically  high transfer values 
and his inside-knowledge of his employer). 
As a final note on this issue, I think a useful question to ask is whether  Mr B, even now, would want  to 
be put back into his occupational scheme. Having reviewed all the evidence  on file it seems  to me he 
wouldnt want  to go back even if he could.  Thats  not to say hes happy with the way things have 
worked out. Clearly not  his complaint attests to several  concerns. But, on the issue of the transfer, I 
dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN969223916Mr Bs original complaint points.
Mr Bs original complaint was prompted  by a number of concerns, which  I deal with below.
i)Ongoing adviser fees
Quilter charged 1% p.a. for an ongoing review service. This was described in its advice letter as 
follows:
We have agreed that you would like your retirement plans to be reviewed  on a half yearly  basis.  The 
costs of the Regular Review  Service will be met by way of a deduction  from your fund. For the 
services described above, an annual  charge  of 1% will be deducted each year.  You should note that 
the rate is charged  as a percentage of your funds value and as such  the actual amounts payable will 
vary as the value of your fund fluctuates. 
After this transfer has settled, at our first review we will review your overall pension  provision within its 
new money-purchase environment
In the authority to proceed form, signed by Mr B on 13 January 2017, a box has been ticked  to show 
Mr B had agreed to the following:
Amount of payment for on-going service: a percentage annually of the value of your product/portfolio 
via ourselves of 1%. Thiswill  increase  or decrease in line with plan values
The ongoing review charge  was levied on a monthly basis. That is, a monthly charge  was levied 
based on the 1% annual charge divided by 12. The first charge (for £477) was taken  on 9 March 
2017. The first review took place  on 20 June 2017 and the second on 26 January 2018 (although it 
was originally  scheduled for the proceeding November). 
Mr B says he was told the ongoing charge would only apply from the second year onwards and would  
only be applied  after each half-yearly review.  He says this meant he effectively  paid 3% for the 
transfer (2% for the transfer itself plus the 1% ongoing  charge  which started to be taken  from the 
month after the transfer).  He says he would  never have agreed  to a 3% charge  in year 1. He also 
says he was left in the invidious position of having insufficient funds in his SIPP in order to pay for the 
unexpected (in his view) ongoing fees.
I recognise the advice letter is ambiguous  on when the reviews would start. It just said the first review 
will take place after this transfer has settled. The authority  to proceed form was also silent on the 
matter. And there  doesnt appear to have  been  a pressing  need for a review in June 2017 which was 
only just after the transfer took place.  So Mr Bs comments are certainly plausible. However, I would 
have expected  there to have been some  sort of written agreement to show a years delay to the 
reviews had been agreed between  the parties given this doesnt appear to have been Quilters 
standard approach. And, the fact is, Mr B did receive the first review in June 2017,  which made it 
clear he was paying for the service and made it clear when the next review would be:
Reconfirming Our Adviser  ChargesThe  cost of this regular review service is met by way of 
deduction from your pension fund, which  is an annual  charge of 1%...This deduction  can be cancelled 
at any time by contact  [sic] the product  provider should you no longer wish to receive a review service  
from me. 
[We] will be in touch to arrange a review in November as agreed.  We can do this face to face or over 
the telephone
Mr B didnt raise  any issues  about the first review, or the scheduled second review, which  suggests 
they were likely to have  been in line with what had been  agreed or Mr B was happy to proceed 
anyway. 
Ref: DRN969223917With regards to the issue  of the charge being taken on a monthly basis rather than at six-monthly  
intervals to coincide with when  the reviews  were  carried  out I can, again, appreciate Mr Bs position 
on this. I havent seen anything that makes it clear  that this would be Quilters approach. And I can 
see why Mr B would have  assumed he would pay for a service around the time that the service was 
provided. However, it appears  that this was Quilters standard approach. And theres nothing  to 
indicate a different  arrangement had been agreed between the parties. Its also not clear to me why 
Quilters approach would have necessarily been to Mr Bs financial  detriment. So I dont propose to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint on this point.
I recognise Mr Bs concern that he ended up being  in the position of having insufficient funds in his 
SIPPs cash  account to pay his fees. This prompted Quilter to email Mr B on 13 April 2018 to ask him 
to transfer funds from his DFM arrangement to his cash account: 
We have received notification from Old Mutual Wealth that the cash balance of your SIPP,  to cover 
your ongoing SIPP and adviser  charges  agreed at implementation, is low.
To enable  us to cover charges for the period to July 2018, can you please  sign the attached  form, 
giving us authority to move  £3,302 back from your Brewin Dolphin account  to your Old Mutual  SIPP 
Cash Account.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think I can fairly say these ongoing fees were incorrectly applied. 
And, not coincidently, Quilter  advised Mr B to set aside  £17,185  (or 3% of his portfolio) in cash  in 
order to pay initial and ongoing charges. Once the initial fees were  paid (a SIPP establishment  fee 
and the advisers initial fee) this left £5,477 for ongoing  fees. This had dwindled to just a few hundred 
pounds by early 2018, prompting Quilters email.  But that was always  going to happen  at some point 
unless Mr B maintained a large cash balance   which doesnt strike me as being  the best use for his 
funds. Far better to have enough funds  on hand  to cover  fees for a reasonable  period, with the 
adviser pointing out when this needed topping up. This is what Quilter did.
It appears as though Mr B didnt  transfer funds  from his discretionary portfolio to his SIPPs cash  
account when prompted  to do so by Quilter. This was done some time later without Mr Bs direct 
permission. According  to Quilter,  this action was taken by Old Mutual  Wealth. Quilter says this was in 
line with Old Mutual  Wealths terms and conditions for situations  when there are insufficient funds  in a 
SIPP to pay fees.
Mr B is unhappy  that this happened. However, for the reasons given above,  the ongoing fees were 
applied correctly. So Mr B was obliged  to pay them. And Quilter did warn Mr B that he needed  to 
increase his cash balances in order to meet his obligations,  which Mr B chose not to do. So its 
difficult to argue Quilter  has treated Mr B in an unreasonable  way here. And Mr B will have to 
complain to Old Mutual  Wealth if it thinks it has acted unfairly or contrary  to what  he signed up to with 
regards to moving  funds within his SIPP. 
Finally on this issue, there is an argument that the implications of his dwindling cash  balance  could 
have been pointed out to Mr B during the January 2018  half-yearly review. But given  Mr B doesnt 
appear to have acted on Quilters advice in this area in April, when  the issue was even more  acute, I 
dont think I can fairly say it would  have  made a difference.  
ii)Unfair presentation of investment returns
Mr B is concerned  about the presentation of his investment returns. He says his DFM, Brewin  
Dolphin, used the initial amount transferred  to it as the comparison figure for returns rather than the 
entire amount of Mr Bs transfer value. In Mr Bs view, this is misleading  given the sizeable amount 
(about £17,000) that wasnt managed by the DFM but was, instead,  kept aside  to be used to pay for 
fees (as discussed above).  
Ref: DRN969223918Mr Bs DFM  didnt have control  over the management of Mr Bs cash account,  or the size of that 
account. It was only responsible for the investment of the funds that were transferred to it on 3 March  
2017. In that light it seems  perfectly  reasonable  to me that the DFM used these funds for measuring  
its investment performance  (although Mr B can complain to Brewin  Dolphin  if he thinks  its investment 
returns were presented in a misleading way). 
That said, I understand the point Mr B is making. He wants to see how his entire transfer value has 
performed. This is reasonable. After all, the fees Mr B was paying  (which is what the SIPPs cash  
account was being used for) would have been a drag on performance  and will impact  on the 
retirement income Mr B can expect. Mr B should keep a close eye on this.
Its possible, therefore,  that I would  have  asked Quilter to include a total return  figure  in its reviews  if it 
was still advising Mr B. However, that doesnt mean to say Quilter has done anything  wrong here.  The 
half-yearly review reports in June 2017 and January  2018 gave the value of Mr Bs total pension as at 
the time of the review, split between the cash account and the DFM.  The reviews also provided 
information on the ongoing  fees that were being paid (as discussed above).  And the January 2018 
review meeting included representatives from Brewin  Dolphin and from Quilter. So I dont  think I can 
fairly say Quilter was keeping important information from Mr B, or that Mr B was given misleading or 
incomplete information  about the performance of his transferred funds. 
iii)Performance issues with the DFM
Mr B has questioned whether the DFM  was the correct vehicle for him. He points to the proximity to 
his retirement and the fact that his portfolio could lose, in his words, up to 33% (IFAs figures). 
With regards the 33% loss figure, its not clear to me where this figure  has come from.  However, in 
Mr Bs original complaint to the adviser he references a 27% fall. I can see this figure was included in 
the January 2018 review to show the maximum historic  loss experienced by a portfolio  with the same 
asset allocation as Mr Bs. So I will take it that Mr B is referring to past losses his portfolio  could have  
experienced rather  than the actual performance of his portfolio (which, according  to the same report, 
had grown  since the date of the transfer). Nevertheless, Mr B has raised a valid point about  the 
suitability of the DFM  given his attitude to risk and his age.
Quilter says Mr B completed a 12-question attitude-to-risk questionnaire. Its advice letter  references 
this questionnaire and the conclusion from that questionnaire which was that Mr B was an 
adventurous investor. Mr B says he didnt  complete such a questionnaire. 
As I said earlier, it looks like the output from the questionnaire was disregarded  for the purposes of 
the advice because Mr B was, ultimately, given  a different attitude-to-risk  (that of a dynamic investor) 
following discussion with his adviser. The advice  letter  outlined what  this meant with regards to 
potential portfolio construction. In particular, I think the following  is relevant:
In general, Dynamic  investors  are happy to take investment risk and understand  this is crucial in 
terms of generating long-term  return. They  are willing to take risk with most  of their available assets. 
Dynamic investors  typically  have significant levels of financial knowledge  and they will usually be 
experienced investors,  who have used a range of investment products in the past that have contained  
high levels of Equity.
We discussed expected  volatility of the strategic asset allocation expected of your risk profile and 
your capacity for loss in respect of your pension  plan and concluded that you are comfortable with 
taking a high level of investment risk in order to have the potential for greater investment returns. You 
have self- invested in the past, and feel that you have enough experience  and knowledge  of the 
markets to take a dynamic level of investment risk.
And in the June 2017  and January 2018  reviews,  Mr Bs attitude-to-risk was raised again under the 
heading of Reconfirming Your Attitude to Risk. Furthermore, Mr Bs attitude-to-risk was translated  
into Brewin Dolphins own risk scale, where he was taken  to be in the diversified risk category,  which 
Ref: DRN969223919was the middle category out of five. Discussion  of Brewin  Dolphins risk categories was also included  
in the half-yearly reviews. So it seems, on balance, that Mr Bs attitude-to-risk was discussed   most 
likely on several occasions  and agreed upon.
  
This isnt quite the same  as saying Mr Bs attitude-to-risk was genuinely dynamic (on Quilters scale) 
or diversified (on Brewin Dolphins scale). These ratings may well have been discussed and agreed 
upon but, in reality, Mr B could  have  been  far more  risk averse.  But I havent  seen anything in the 
case file to suggest  that this was the case. Mr B appears to have been comfortable with investing a 
relatively large proportion (approximately two-thirds) of his portfolio in equities. And given  that he 
wasnt looking  to draw  large amounts from his pension  in the short  term (and wasnt seeking  to 
convert his pension  to an annuity), investing his funds in this way doesnt appear to have been 
unsuitable. 
Of course, this would have needed to have been kept under review,  a point alluded to in the advice 
letter which suggested Mr B was looking to change his investment strategy  from the age of 55:
You are likely to start drawing from your pension  as early as age 55, and feel that as you have 2 and 
a half years left before then you want to take a high level of risk, in order to have the potential  for 
higher returns  but not a 100% investment  into global  equities.
Finally on this point, I note that Mr B in his complaint  to Quilter pointed  out that he knew of pension 
products that would grow  at 7% p.a. irrespective  of market conditions. Whilst I accept its possible 
some businesses will market their products in this way, I dont consider it likely  that such growth 
would be guaranteed  whatever was going on in the external environment.  
 
iv)The end of the ongoing review service 
In October 2018, Quilter wrote to Mr B to say it would no longer be providing an ongoing  review 
service for Mr B. It said it had already  contacted Mr Bs SIPP administrator to tell it to cease paying  
the fee it received  for this. (Its not clear from the evidence Ive been provided  with why Quilter  
stopped the ongoing service.  Its possible its related to the concerns  Mr B raised as part of this 
complaint. If either  party  has any comments on this, and theyre  material to the outcome of the 
complaint, they can raise  them in response to this provisional decision.)
In November 2018, Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mr B to say that it couldnt  offer a discretionary  fund 
management service to Mr B if he didnt  have a financial adviser. It offered him two alternatives  find 
another organisation  to manage  his funds or find another financial adviser. 
Mr B is unhappy  that it wasnt made clear that he required  a permanent  adviser. He also says he 
incurred costs in liquidating his portfolio. 
Having reviewed  the case  file, I cant see anything that shows Quilter did warn  Mr B about this when it 
gave its advice, although it may have told Mr B this during  one if its three advice meetings.  Its also 
possible that the DFM  made this point clear to Mr B in its paperwork, or during the 13 January 2017 
advice meeting which  it attended. Even so, this was important information so I think Quilter should  
have at least  included it in its advice  letter (the Cancellation of Provider Facilitated Ongoing Charge 
section would  appear to have been the most obvious place for this). But even if it had done so, Im not 
persuaded it would have made  a difference to Mr Bs decision. Mr Bs transfer value was substantial. 
His future income needs were, by his own admission,  unpredictable. And his investment strategy  
would have required adjustment over time. So I think Mr B would have seen the need for an adviser 
on an ongoing  basis and considerations  about this wouldnt have played  into his decision regarding 
appointing a DFM. 
v)Service  issues
Mr B has complained about the service he received from Quilter. He makes specific reference  to the 
17 January 2017 advice letter which, he says, was presented to him 15 minutes  before a meeting  on 
Ref: DRN9692239206 February. He says the letter,  which was 26 pages  long,  could have,  and should  have, been 
presented far sooner. He says it also contained incorrect information. 
Quilter agrees the report wasnt presented  until 6 February. It says this was because  its advice 
needed to be approved  by their compliance  team before being given to Mr B. It also said Mr B agreed 
to this following a telephone conversation with the adviser.  
I have some sympathy with Mr B on this in so far as it must be better to have sight of a lengthy, 
detailed, report ahead of a meeting and then use that meeting to discuss areas  of particular interest  
and concern. Nevertheless, its clear Mr B did have time to consider its contents. His complaint letter 
to Quilter says he took it away and thats when he spotted  its inaccuracies.  And in his 12 February 
email  six days after the meeting   Mr B says he had read and understood the advice he had been 
given. The transfer went ahead ten days after that, on 22 February. So whilst I take on board Mr Bs 
point about the advice letter being provided at the last minute, I dont think I can fairly  say Mr B was 
unable to review the advice he was given.
As for the inaccuracies  Mr B points to, I think any mistakes are regrettable. However, as I said above,  
it seems to me that Mr B picked up on these and that they were  corrected. I also see no reason why 
the inaccuracies in question would have impacted on the substance of Mr Bs advice.
Final thoughts
I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Thats not to say Mr B hasnt raised  a number of valid 
points. He has, and I hope thats been reflected  in my findings. However, for the reasons  given above,  
I wont be asking Quilter  to take any further action.  
I should  also point out that despite the similarities in their cases, Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of their advice were  different and some of the advice they were  given was different  too. It means 
the outcomes of their cases  may well differ as a result. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN9692239