K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that CMC Spreadbet  Plc have acted irresponsibly by allowing him to 
open an account and continue to trade.
background
Mr V submitted his application to open  an account  on 10 January  2016 and starting  placing 
spread bets in February 2016. He has  said he lost his job in June 2017. As a result  he 
obtained credit which  he used to place bets on his account and built up a huge  debt on his 
spread betting  account. He feels CMC didnt  carry out any checks  to obtain  where  the 
money he was using to place  the bets was coming  from.  And he said that due to CMCs lax 
standards he has now found  himself in a cycle  of debt. Mr V claims that if stricter measures 
had been in force it would have prevented irresponsible use of his account. 
Mr V has also raised that during this period  of time his trading pattern had changed. He says 
he was trading much larger amounts more frequently. And at no point did anyone from CMC 
try to contact him to discuss this. If it had been  monitored and contact had been made  with 
him he feels his account would  have  been closed sooner. Mr V has also said that during that 
time he was suffering from a gambling addiction. And so it was irresponsible of CMC to 
continue to allow him to trade.
CMC has said after Mr V completed his account application he confirmed hed read and 
understood the Terms of Business which said that Mr V would  notify it as soon  as possible if 
there were any changes in his circumstances . As Mr V didnt  notify it, CMC was unaware  he 
had lost his job or had a gambling addiction.  It also said Mr V would have received its risk 
warning cautioned  against trading on credit.
It also said that it was unaware  of Mr Vs gambling addiction. If it had have been aware it 
would have taken  the appropriate measures.
Mr V remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator  looked  
into this for him but he didnt recommend it be upheld. To summarise he said as Mr V 
opened an execution  only account  CMC were  not required to carry out a detailed 
assessment of the customers  financial situation and objectives as we would expect when 
advice has been  given. And he had seen evidence to suggest  CMC  had given Mr V a 
warning to say credit  shouldnt be used  for his bets. 
He said he accepted there was an increase in Mr Vs activity in placing trades  and larger 
sums he had credited.  But as the CMC  didnt have any concerns  about Mr Vs trading he 
wouldnt have expected CMC to have  intervened or prevented Mr V from using the account.
Mr V didnt agree so the case was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
opening the account
Ref: DRN95051972The service  CMC provided to Mr V was on a execution only basis, so it wasnt  required to 
assess whether spread  betting was suitable  for Mr V. But under the regulators Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  COBS 10, CMC had to establish whether this type of trading was 
appropriate for Mr V. This meant it needed  to decide whether Mr V had the necessary 
knowledge and experience to understand the particular risks of spread  betting.
As well as this it needed to explain  how spread bets work and the risks involved,  and ensure 
appropriate risk warnings were provided alongside the service agreement. I have  reviewed 
the answers Mr V gave  when he opened  his account and this led CMC to conclude he didnt 
have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks of trading. So because CMC 
didnt think the account was appropriate  for him it sent him a risk warning. 
Having reviewed the risk warning I am satisfied  CMC explicitly  says he may be exposing  
himself to risks that fall outside his knowledge and experience. It pointed out that Mr V 
should familiarise himself  with the demo account, free educational material  and risk warning 
on its website. And goes on to explain if he still remains uncertain he should seek 
independent advice. In order for Mr V to have  successfully  opened  his account he would 
have needed to accept the terms of business  and accept he had read the risk warning.  As 
Mr V did open the account and began trading I am satisfied he saw the declaration  and 
confirmed he agreed to the user agreement.
was the account appropriate
Under COBS 10.3.3G when a business doesnt think it appropriate  for a customer  to open 
an account but the customer wants to continue anyway, its for the business to decide  
whether to let them having regard for the customers circumstances and interests.
This rule only requires CMC to warn Mr V that the account wasnt  appropriate.  Mr V was 
warned the account wasnt appropriate,  and the risks of him continuing were  explained  to 
him. He was given resources to increase his understanding. Mr V chose to accept the risks, 
and not make use of the resources available, before he began  trading
Ive considered whether there  was anything in Mr Vs application which  meant that CMC 
shouldnt have allowed  him to proceed with opening  the account. And, given the particular 
circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that CMCs decision to allow   Mr V to open the 
account wasnt unreasonable.   I can also see that CMC explained that it may consider 
closing an account  if new facts or issues come to light once an account was opened. In Mr 
Vs case,  given the volume  of trading which began virtually as soon as he opened his 
account, there was no particular reason  why CMC ought to have decided to close it.
Mr Vs personal circumstances
I am really sorry to hear that Mr V lost his job in June  2017. I appreciate  this would have 
been a difficult  time for him. And I acknowledge that Mr V has said he has a gambling  
addiction, again  I accept this would have  been difficult  for Mr V. But I have looked at CMCs  
Terms of Business which say that Mr V should notify  it if there  were  any changes  in his 
circumstances. CMC has said Mr V didnt make it aware  he had a gambling addiction  prior to 
February 2018 nor that he had lost his job. And our investigator said he hadnt seen any 
Ref: DRN95051973evidence to suggest Mr V had made  CMC aware of this information earlier. Mr V hasnt 
disputed this point  in his correspondence.  So with that in mind, I think it is likely that CMC 
wasnt aware prior to February 2018  (after the account had closed) that Mr V had lost his 
job, had a gambling addiction or was funding his bets by credit.  
However I appreciate  that Mr Vs main  point in relation to this was that CMC should have 
been aware of this due to the activity on his trading account. But having looked at Mr Vs 
trading pattern Im satisfied there wasnt a significant  change.  When  Mr V opened  his 
account in 2016, he placed  a high volume  of trades.  And on some occasion  multiple  trades 
each day. And I have  looked at the trades  placed  from June  2017  onwards. Again while  the 
volume of trades may have slightly increased,  I dont think it was significant  enough  to say 
that CMC should have  been alerted to an issue prior to it closing Mr Vs account. 
trading with credit
Having reviewed the risk warning  I am satisfied  that CMC makes its consumers aware that 
they shouldnt  be using credit or finance  to place their bets. Mr V has said CMC should  have  
checked where his funds  had come from. But as I said previously Mr V at that point  had 
been trading for over a year and had demonstrated he understood how spread betting 
worked and the risks involved.  His trading pattern hadnt altered significantly and Mr V 
continued to place a similar  amount  of winning and losing trades. Although I appreciate  the 
overall losses exceeded the profit but that on its own isnt unusual  with this type of trading.  
So with that in mind, I dont think  its fair to say that CMC should have had cause to be 
concerned. Particularly  after Mr V had confirmed hed read and understood the risk 
warnings, had the option to view other literature and demonstrated he knew  how spread 
betting worked. 
current position
Mr V stopped trading on 19 September 2017  and withdrew a balance  of £45.57. As there 
was no outstanding balance and the account  has no closed, I wont be asking CMC to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9505197