K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt clearly explain the terms of its Refer 
a Friend (RAF) incentive. As a result, she didnt receive the £100 incentive after switching 
her account  from another bank. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my decision 
dated 31 October 2019. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Mrs Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  I invited  Mrs B and Nationwide to send me any additional 
comments or information they wanted me to consider before I made  my final decision. A 
copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms  part of this final decision.  
Mrs B responded to confirm she accepts my provisional decision. 
Nationwide didnt accept.  In response it said: 
-A statement from the branch advisor said they dont recall discussing the RAF 
incentive with Mrs B or her husband.  
-Nationwide doesnt discuss which  direct debits will be transferred during an account 
switch application  as that information  is obtained  automatically. 
-Mrs B didnt  waste time unnecessarily completing an account switch because  shes 
continued to use it despite not receiving the RAF incentive.  
-The statements from Mrs Bs husband indicate  they didnt understand how the RAF 
incentive worked. 
-Mrs B has successfully completed  the RAF process and received an incentive  for 
referring her husband. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has provided a statement from the branch  advisor that says they dont recall 
discussing the RAF incentive with Mrs B or her husband  when  they met in branch. But 
Mrs B, and her husband (who represents  her in this matter), have told us they do recall 
discussing the terms of the RAF incentive with the advisor in branch. Theyve also explained  
that the £100 incentive was one of the primary reasons  they applied  to switch their account 
and was specifically  discussed. 
Where details of what happened  are unclear  or disputed Ill base my decision on the balance  
of probabilities. That is, what I consider most  likely to have happened based on all the 
available evidence. In this case,  the advisor doesnt say he definitely didnt discuss  the RAF 
incentive. He says he doesnt recall  doing  that during the meeting. But Mrs B and Mr B have 
both told us they specifically told him she wanted to receive the incentive and discussed how 
it worked. I note that the original complaint email is sent to the advisor specifically says the 
incentive was incorrectly explained during their meeting.  Taking everything Ive seen 
together, I think its more  likely than not that the RAF incentive was discussed with the 
advisor in branch. 
Ref: DRN94199312Nationwide says it cant be held responsible  if Mrs B and her husband didnt understand the 
process or how to qualify  for the RAF. But, as Ive said above,  Im satisfied they discussed 
the terms of the incentive in branch with the advisor.  So it should have been possible to 
ensure Mrs B understood  exactly  what was needed to qualify. And, as I said in my previous 
decision, Im satisfied one of the main priorities of the account switch  was for Mrs B to 
receive the RAF incentive.  I think Nationwide missed the chance to clearly  explain the RAF 
incentive when  Mrs B discussed her account switch  in branch. Had it done so, I think Mrs B 
would have acted  differently.  
In response to my provisional decision Nationwide has pointed out that Mrs B has continued 
to use her account. But in my provisional  decision I said that I thought  Mrs B could have 
delayed her account switch in order to ensure she met the qualifying  terms. And I still think  
thats the case. Certainly, I dont think Mrs B was aware that she hadnt  met the terms of the 
RAF incentive when  her account switch was processed in branch. Given  what  weve been 
told by Mrs B and her husband,  I think she would have acted differently had she known. 
Ive taken into account everything that Nationwide and Mrs B have said and provided.  Ive 
thought carefully  about Nationwides detailed response to my provisional decision. But I still 
think Nationwides advisor was told Mrs B wanted  to qualify the RAF incentive and missed 
the chance to clearly  explain how the process  worked or check whether she met the 
qualifying criteria. I remain  of the view that this has caused a Mrs B trouble and upset  and 
the fairest way to deal with that is for Nationwide to pay her £100. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs B £100.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN94199313Copy of Provisional Decision 31 October 2019
Complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt clearly explain the terms of its Refer 
a Friend (RAF) incentive. As a result, she didnt receive the £100 incentive after switching 
her account  from another bank. 
Background
Mrs B says she attended two meetings with Nationwide and discussed the RAF incentive. 
She says that Nationwide didnt make it clear in the meetings or in the literature she was 
given that two direct debits had to be switched from her old account during the switching 
process. Mrs B thought  she could set the direct debits up within 90 days  of the account 
being opened and still qualify for the incentive.
After going ahead with the switching application in branch, Mrs B didnt receive the expected 
£100 incentive and complained. Nationwide said that as two direct  debits hadnt been moved 
from her old account as part of the switching process she didnt qualify and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr B referred Mrs Bs complaint to our service on her behalf  and an investigator looked at it. 
He didnt ask Nationwide  to pay Mrs B the incentive of £100 because  he thought the 
information Nationwide provided was clear  in explaining how to qualify. On Mrs Bs behalf, 
Mr B asked to appeal so the complaints been  passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Nationwide has provided copies of its promotional literature setting out how customers can 
qualify for the RAF incentive. And the literature explains that one of the qualifying  criteria is 
that two direct debits  have  to be switched from the applicants existing account to their new 
Nationwide account.  I agree that Nationwides promotional literature does explain how to 
qualify for the RAF incentive. 
But I have to balance  that against what Mrs B has told us about her application. Mrs B says 
she visited Nationwide twice and discussed the incentive with the advisor. Shes told us it 
was made  clear that one of the key reasons she was applying  for this current account was to 
receive the RAF incentive of £100.  Mr B, who brings  the complaint on behalf of Mrs B, has 
told us he was present  at the meetings and during the application (which was completed in 
branch with the assistance of an advisor) and that it was made clear that Mrs B wanted  the 
RAF incentive. 
Ref: DRN94199314I accept that the promotional  information Ive seen says that customers  have to switch  to 
direct debits as part of the switching process in order to qualify for the RAF incentive. But as 
the application was completed in branch with the help of an advisor I think  Mrs B could 
reasonably have expected them to provide information about  how the account worked and 
whether she qualified for the RAF incentive. In this case, Mrs B didnt provide details of any 
direct debits she wanted to switch  as part of the application  process  and I think  the branch 
advisor should have highlighted that would mean she wouldnt qualify for the incentive. Its 
clear from Mrs Bs complaint  that she thought she would  still be able to qualify for the RAF 
incentive despite completing her application in branch.  I think  Nationwide  missed  an 
opportunity to fully explain  how the account and RAF incentive worked during the application  
process. 
Mrs B didnt qualify for the RAF incentive as she didnt  move two direct  debits  to her new 
account. So I dont  think it would be fair to tell Nationwide to pay the RAF incentive now. But 
I do think Mrs B wasted  time and unnecessarily completed an application to switch  her 
current account. Im satisfied that if the branch advisor had told Mrs B she wouldnt qualify 
for the RAF incentive  she wouldnt  have gone ahead with the application or would have 
delayed it until she was able to meet the qualifying criteria. As a result,  I think the fairest way 
to resolve this complaint is for Nationwide to pay Mrs B £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint and intend to direct  
Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mrs B £100.  
Mrs B and Nationwide have until 14 November 2019 to send  me any additional comments  or 
information theyd  like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9419931