K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W says he was unaware  PPI had been added to his account.  The credit  card and PPI 
were taken out over the internet. From what I know of Capital Ones  online sales process at 
the time,  Mr W wouldve  been given the option  of selecting yes or no for PPI. Capital One 
has given me an internal  document  showing the information Mr W input when he applied  for 
his credit card online. This shows he selected yes for PPI. 
Mr W has said the yes box mustve been  pre-ticked  on the application. Capital One has 
said both options  wouldve  been blank initially. I cant be certain if the yes box was          
pre-ticked, thought I think its more likely it was blank. But looking at how the PPI was 
presented, I think it was clear there was the option to decline the policy,  and that one of the 
options needed to be selected to complete the credit  card application. So, on balance, I think 
Capital One made it clear  that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
Mr W had three months of sick pay available to him and says he couldve relied on his 
parents. But the policy  couldve covered him for up to twelve  months  per claim if he was too 
ill to work,  had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition to his 
sick pay. While I appreciate Mr Ws family  wouldve wanted to help him, support from others  
cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change.  And ultimately it was up 
to Mr W to maintain his repayments.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Ref: DRN95654062Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9565406