K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility  and eleven high-cost short term credit 
instalment loans that Sunny provided to Mrs T from July 2014 onwards.  Mrs Ts last loan 
was provided in August 2018.  Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ts complaint and thought she 
shouldnt have been provided with any of her instalment  loans. Sunny didnt agree with our 
adjudicators assessment  in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs T, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mrs T was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided the first instalment loan. 
I say this because  Sunny transitioned Mrs T from a facility which  its own product literature 
said shouldnt be used  for an extended period of time to a series  of instalment loans which  
had the same effect. Mrs T then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans  not 
too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them  were  even provided when Mrs T 
Ref: DRN91104112already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Sunny continued lending to Mrs T 
even when this pattern  was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further  loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs T paid on all her instalment loans (including any 
payments that may have been made  to a third-party  debt purchaser);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ts credit file for loans 2 to 5. The 
number of loans  provided means that any information recorded about loans to 6 to 11 
on Mrs Ts credit file is likely to be adverse.  So all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mrs Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9110411