K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G).
Mr and Mrs M are represented in bringing  their complaint by a claims management company 
(CMC).
background
Mr and Mrs M remortgaged in 2005. They were advised by a mortgage broker  from the firm 
Carrington Carr Home Finance Ltd, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the 
time.
Prior to the remortgage, Mr and Mrs M owed around £40,000 on their existing mortgage.  
They also had a secured loan with around £34,000  outstanding, and they owed just over 
£7,000 across two credit  card accounts.
Under the remortgage, Mr and Mrs M borrowed £95,550. They  consolidated all their existing 
debts. The remaining funds were  used to cover the costs of setting up the new mortgage  
and to pay for a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
In 2018, the CMC complained to L&G on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf. It said the mortgage advice 
had been unsuitable due to the costs of setting it up, which it said totalled  over £12,000. It 
thought Mr and Mrs M ought to have been  directed towards their existing lender if theyd had 
a particularly urgent need to remortgage. And it said the PPI policy  had been mis-sold  to 
them.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs M had built up debts of £41,000 
over two credit cards and a loan. Theyd needed to reduce  their monthly  outgoings, and 
consolidating these  debts  within  the new mortgage achieved this  with a reduction of £560. 
And the new mortgage interest rate was lower,  with the five-year  fixed  rate term giving them  
the stability theyd  wanted.
The CMC referred Mr and Mrs Ms complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our 
adjudicators. She noted that it had been  a priority for Mr and Mrs M to reduce  their monthly 
outgoings, which was achieved  and the consolidation brought  down the cost of servicing 
their debts from almost £1,300 to around £720. So she thought the brokers  recommendation 
had been suitable. She also thought  Mr and Mrs M had been given enough information to 
understand the consequences of consolidating debts within their mortgage.
Our adjudicator also noted that the PPI policy had been the subject of a separate  complaint 
back in 2012.  L&G had responded to that at the time, noting that Mr and Mrs M had 
cancelled the policy within 30 days of setting it up and had therefore been given a full refund 
of payments.
The CMC didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It said Mr and Mrs M had been able to keep 
up with the payments due on their existing arrangements, so reducing  their outgoings wasnt  
enough to justify the additional costs theyd incur  in repaying the consolidated debts over the 
longer mortgage  term. It didnt agree  that Mr and Mrs M had been given enough information 
about the comparative costs to make an informed  decision. And it raised  a number of 
concerns with a legal administration fee charged by the broker, which it thought was unfair.
Ref: DRN92002162So with no resolution, Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage advice
Like our adjudicator, Ive not found the brokers mortgage advice to have  been  unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs M. 
Looking at their circumstances as recorded  at the time, I think Mr and Mrs M had a need to 
reduce their outgoings   and that was achieved by the remortgage.  The fact find shows that 
after meeting all their existing commitments, they had just £120 a month left over. So while I 
accept the CMCs point  that Mr and Mrs M were meeting  their commitments,  I dont think 
they were in a particularly  comfortable position  and there was some  benefit in reviewing their 
arrangements.
Prior to the remortgage, Mr and Mrs M were spending a significant proportion  of their income  
on servicing their debts. Their monthly  mortgage payment was £382. But the payments they 
were making to the secured  loan and credit card debts  totalled around £900 a month.  Mr and 
Mrs M owed  more on these debts than on their mortgage, and were paying significantly  
more in interest  with a rate of 7.9% on the secured loan and rates of 13.9% and 17.9% on 
the credit  cards.
The broker  recommended  a new fixed rate of 4.99%, meaning Mr and Mrs M were  charged 
interest at a lower rate than theyd been  paying  on any of their other borrowing. 
Consolidating all their debts within the new mortgage deal facilitated  a significant reduction 
in their monthly outgoings, with one new monthly  payment of £722  meaning they had a 
much more comfortable level of disposable  income  (around £560).
There are some downsides to consolidating debts in this way. Most notably, Mr and Mrs M 
may end up paying  more  in interest  overall because theyll be paying  the debts back  for 
longer. Thats less of an issue for the secured loan, which had almost as long to run (13 
years) as the new mortgage  term (16 years). But its certainly true of the credit card debts,  
which I accept Mr and Mrs M may have paid off quicker. And consolidating the credit card 
debts means that Mr and Mrs M increased  the level of debt secured against their property. 
But I think the benefits of the lower interest rates and substantially lower monthly payments 
outweigh these disadvantages. 
The CMC argues that the benefits of the arrangement dont justify the costs involved in 
setting it up. I dont agree with that. It didnt actually cost Mr and Mrs M £12,000 to set it up, 
as has been suggested. Most of that amount  was for the PPI policy  (£8,550),  that ended  up 
being cancelled  anyway. Mr and Mrs M actually paid out around £3,700 to set up the new 
mortgage  covering the advice, the fee for the fixed rate deal and all the costs  (such as the 
legal work  and a valuation  fee). I dont  find that amount so high as to render the 
recommendation unsuitable. And while Mr and Mrs M may have been able to arrange things 
more cheaply  through  their existing lender, there was no requirement on the broker  to 
recommend that they do so. 
Ref: DRN92002163The CMC also says that Mr and Mrs M werent  given  enough  information  about the 
consolidation to make  an informed decision.  It says they ought  to have been given 
illustrations, comparing  the costs  of maintaining their existing  arrangements  with those of the 
brokers recommendation. That wasnt a requirement, and I dont think  it was needed. The 
broker set out in his letter  of recommendation to Mr and Mrs M that while the interest  rate 
would decrease,  the overall cost was likely to increase due to the longer term. He also 
explained that the credit card debts would  now be secured against their home. I think  this 
was sufficient to enable Mr and Mrs M to make  an informed decision as to whether to 
proceed.
The legal costs  
The CMC notes that some of the costs in respect of the legal work were charged  by the 
broker rather than the solicitor in the form of a legal  administration fee. Mr and Mrs M had to 
pay £293.75 for this, on top of the cost of their solicitors  (£229.13).
I dont find anything inherently unreasonable in the legal  administration  fee itself: there are a 
number of administrative procedures that need  not have been  carried  out by a solicitor. I 
know the CMC questions the value of the work  given that a solicitor  was involved, especially 
in view of the fee it recouped. But while I appreciate where its coming from here, ultimately  it 
was up to the broker to decide what fee it wanted  to charge for the services it provided.
These fees were set out in a Solicitors Form of Authorisation.  This confirmed Mr and 
Mrs Ms instruction to pay £250  plus VAT to the broker in respect of the legal administration 
service, on top of the legal costs paid to the solicitor (£195  plus VAT). And Mr and Mrs M 
signed that form. So I think they were  clearly informed about  the fee and what it was for  
and they agreed  to pay it. So I dont think it was unfairly charged.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs M were also led to believe that the legal administration 
service was a pre-requisite  of the mortgage  and that they werent given the option  of 
appointing their own solicitors. But Ive not seen any evidence  of that.  
The CMC has also raised concerns that the broker received commission  for recommending  
the firm of solicitors used for the conveyancing work. But while  the complaints been with us, 
L&G has made an offer to resolve that aspect of the complaint which  the CMC has accepted. 
So I make no finding on that matter here and understand that L&G will settle the issue 
directly with the CMC.
The PPI policy
Mr and Mrs M complained to L&G in 2012 about  the PPI policy it sold them alongside the 
mortgage. And L&G responded to those  concerns  at that time, notifying them that they 
needed to refer any outstanding concerns  to us within six months  of that response  if they 
remained unhappy. These matters have been raised substantially outside of that period. As I 
cant see that was due to any exceptional  circumstances,  we cant look into these issues  
now. 
It is worth reiterating, in any event, that L&Gs response suggests Mr and Mrs M havent lost 
out at all here  as the small amount they mightve initially paid towards the policy  was 
refunded on cancellation anyway. 
Ref: DRN92002164my final decision
My final decision is that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I require it to honour that offer,  but 
nothing more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9200216