K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wouldnt let him reject a car. 
background
In July 2017 Mr J bought  a second hand car costing  £4,999 with funding  provided by a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. It was some eight years old and had done 
around 71,000  miles. He says he encountered  a number of problems with the car.
He says the front brakes, windscreen wipers and key fob were  faulty.  The faulty key meant 
he couldnt lock it and so his insurance was void. He says he bought a key battery  and took 
it to the dealer, but it didnt fix the key. He says he was also promised MOT renewal  soon 
after he purchased  the vehicle. This didnt happen so he visited  a local garage  and the car 
failed MOT on 1 September 2017 due to:
front brake disc in a such a condition that it is seriously weakened,
offside rear coil spring not correctly  located,
front windscreen wiper does not clear  the windscreen effectively 
advisory notice offside rear nail in tyre.
Some 10 days later the dealer arranged for another  garage to carry out a MOT which it 
passed without  any work  being done  apparently. Mr J had concerns  and refused  to drive the 
car or pay Moneybarn and asked that it take it away. It did so. It rejected his complaint and 
said that it would cover the cost of a further MOT. It also said the dealers  pre-delivery 
inspection didnt identify  any problems. 
Mr J brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She noted Moneybarns  offer,  but couldnt see 
any call attempts from the business  in the six months period before  the car was taken back 
asking to arrange another inspection or to make necessary  repairs. She thought  it would 
have been appropriate of the business  to have repaired the car, but it was too late as it had 
since been repossessed.
She believed  that as Mr J had raised  his concerns shortly after he acquired  the car she 
thought it reasonable to conclude that repairs were required. She asked the business to 
explain why the MOT  passed just 10 days later without any repairs  but it said that it didnt 
know. 
The investigator said there was a lack of clear evidence from the business and it was difficult 
to establish what  had happened. However  Mr Js testimony supported  by evidence from both 
parties suggests that he brought  the issues to the dealerships attention  without obtaining 
any resolution. On balance she considered that Moneybarn should end the agreement with 
nothing more to pay and remove any adverse entries it had placed  on Mr Js credit file. 
Moneybarn didnt agree  and said it had been willing to arrange for another MOT  and it noted  
Mr J had driven the car for 5,000  miles.
Ref: DRN92245652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Although the evidence  is scant I am satisfied that there were issues with car shortly  after Mr 
J acquired it. I accept that the lock didnt work and this limited  his use of it as he could only 
leave it in places  which were secure.  That would  also have affected the validity  of his 
insurance.
In the circumstances I would have expected Moneybarn to pursue a resolution to his 
complaint, but I have  noted that its calls to Mr J were seeking payment of arrears. It didnt 
appear to actively seek to deal with the faults.  
I am also concerned  that the car apparently passed a MOT a few days after it had failed one 
and there  is no evidence of any repair work being  carried out between the two. I can 
understand why Mr J felt uncomfortable with the work of the dealer and its associates.  In 
normal circumstances I would usually  suggest  that the business arrange for the car to be 
repaired, but as it has been repossessed  that is not an option. 
I appreciate Mr J has had some use of the car, but as the investigator has pointed  out this 
wasnt extensive and was primarily for getting  to and from work. This is due to fact he 
couldnt leave  it anywhere unsecure. Therefore I consider the suggested remedy  put forward  
by the investigator  is fair.
Ref: DRN92245653my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited to:
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further owed,
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  with the credit 
reference agencies.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9224565