K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC debited his account with a series of online 
payments totalling  £8,000 that he didnt make or otherwise authorise.  
background
Between 27 December  2018 and 28 December 2018, a series of online payments debited 
Mr Es Barclays account using his debit card details to an online trading platform  totalling  
£8,000. Mr E said hed never used the online trading  platform  before and felt that Barclays 
should have got in touch  with him to verify  whether it was him making the transactions.  Mr E 
said he had no idea how someone else was able to get hold of his card details. 
Mr E complained to Barclays  in early January 2019.  They initially refunded £1,200 of the 
disputed transactions  whilst they investigated.  Barclays later decided  to hold Mr E liable for 
the transactions because they had evidence which showed:
Mr Es correct  name, date of birth, home  address  and email  address were used to set 
up the account on the online trading platform;  
the IP address used to make the first payment was provided by the online trading 
platform and this matched the IP address  used  to login to Mr Es online banking  
before and after the disputed transactions took place; and
the trading  platform account holder took part in an online chat with the trading 
platform telling them they had a new card. They said this was around the time theyd 
issued a new card to Mr E which was used for genuine transactions  by Mr E. 
As they thought it was most likely that Mr E had authorised the transactions,  Barclays  
removed £1,000 of the temporary  refund from Mr Es account. They didnt take the remaining 
£200 and awarded him £100 for providing  him conflicting information during the complaints 
process and towards  call costs.
Mr E didnt agree so he came to our service. Our investigator reviewed his complaint and 
didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything more  as he felt that it was most likely 
Mr E authorised the payments.  Mr E explained to us that he had suffered some significant 
physical and mental health conditions,  and this meant he may not have  paid attention when 
looking at applications  such  as mobile banking  and emails. He said he often missed emails 
due to junk mail. He explained that this was why he may not have noticed  the payments 
when he went on his online banking, and why he could have missed emails  from the trading 
platform company. He accepted that it could  have even been him that made them  but that he 
wasnt aware due to his vulnerabilities, and so Barclays should  have  done  more to help him. 
This didnt  change our investigators recommendation. Because Mr E didnt agree, it has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions the investigator previously set out and 
for much the same reasons. Im sorry to Mr E as I know  will be disappointed to hear this. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr E liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Having 
reviewed the evidence Im satisfied  that the correct authentication process took place,  
Ref: DRN92548772namely that the correct card details were  input and used on the account on the trading 
platform. However, the relevant regulations say that this alone  is inadequate to enable  
Barclays to hold Mr E liable for these payments. So I need to consider whether I think  the 
evidence shows it is more  likely than not that Mr E consented to the payments  being made. 
Having reviewed the evidence, and whilst I accept its possible that someone else could 
have made  these transactions, I dont think its the most likely explanation  here.  So I think its 
reasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr E authorised the disputed  transactions. This is 
because: 
Ive considered how someone  couldve  accessed Mr Es personal and card details in 
order to set up the account and make these payments. Mr E has explained that 
friends and family do come into his home so could  have gained  access to them.  But I 
dont think thats the most likely scenario  here. 
I say this because  utilising the correct  personal  details such as Mr Es email address 
would pose an unnecessary risk to someone  conducting unauthorised activity  on his 
account. The online trading platform has confirmed it sent emails to Mr Es account 
such as those confirming  the account  was registered and when trades were made. 
Whilst I accept  that Mr E doesnt  always keep a close eye on his emails,  a third party 
wouldnt necessarily know this. So using  the correct email address would increase 
the chances of Mr E noticing unauthorised activity and putting a stop to it, with no 
discernible benefit to the unknown third party. 
Further, it would be problematic for someone  other than Mr E to be able to gain a 
benefit from these  transactions.  The transactions that were  made  to place trades  on 
the world markets. If an unknown third party had made these transactions, they 
would have needed to access his online banking or card in order  to access  any 
returns on these trades.  It seems unusual that someone with access to Mr Es card 
details would make  such trades which they may not see a return on, and if they did, 
they may not be able to access the funds. 
The payments  are made over a two-day period, with the largest gap between 
payments being 24 hours. If an unknown third party had obtained all the necessary 
details to make these payments it seems strange that they would complete eight 
payments over two days. I might expect  to see them maximising  Mr Es account  
balance as quickly as possible  as Mr E could have  noticed and contacted  Barclays 
thus preventing  any further payments. Mr E did log in to his online banking after the 
first payment  but I accept he may not have  noticed the first transaction as he may 
not have been paying attention, or it may not have been showing on his online 
banking records yet. But nonetheless this demonstrates that it would be rational for 
an unknown third party to perceive  there to be a risk of Mr E noticing the transactions 
and blocking the card - and therefore completing them in a more  timely manner.
Ive also seen digital evidence which shows that the same IP address was used  to 
make the first payment to the online trading platform as was used to login to Mr Es 
online and mobile banking before and after these transactions  were made. So for 
these payments to have been  made by someone else,  they would have had to 
access his card details, personal  details  and made the transactions from the same IP 
address as Mr E used   and Ive not seen an explanation that suitably explains how 
this could have  happened.  
The online trading  platform has also provided  evidence that someone on the account, 
registered to Mr E, spoke  to them on an online  chat to notify them that they had a 
new card. This coincided  with Barclays sending out a new card that it appears Mr E 
received as he went on to use this card to make genuine transactions.  So an 
unknown third party would have had to know he had a new card, and obtain the new 
card details,  all without Mr E noticing  or without his consent or knowledge.
Ref: DRN92548773All of this persuades me that Mr E made  the payments but has since forgotten about 
them or later regretted the spending. 
Mr E also said that he felt Barclays should have noticed the spending on his account was 
unusual and blocked the payments from going  through. I have carefully considered  this point 
and reviewed Mr Es statements. As Mr E only opened the account shortly before these 
transactions took place, it would be hard to say whether these were normal payments for 
him to make.  But if the spending on the account  followed a pattern which indicated that Mr E 
may have  fallen victim to a fraud or scam I may expect  Barclays  to have  intervened.  In this 
case, the payments were made to a legitimate trading  platform over a two day period. And 
whilst the total amount  of the transactions  was for £8,000  this was made up of eight separate  
smaller payments that were spaced  out  indeed there was a full 24 hours between  the 
penultimate and the final payment. So in the circumstances  I dont think it was unfair that 
these payments didnt  flag on Barclays system as being unusual.  Given the circumstances I 
dont think that the payments were so unusual that Barclays  should  have  had cause for 
concern that Mr Es account was being  used fraudulently. But even  if I were  to conclude  that 
the payments  were  unusual then I dont think it would have made  a difference  as ultimately I 
think Mr E made the payments. So Im not persuaded that if Barclays  had intervened it would 
have made  a difference. At the time of the payments occurring Im not persuaded Mr E 
would have said anything  was wrong with these payments. And he was dealing with what 
appears to be a genuine company. So I dont think Barclays would have been concerned  
that Mr E was at risk of financial harm. Its only later that he disputed them and as Ive said 
potentially regretted  the spending.  
Mr E has said that he may have  missed or forgotten about these payments due his 
vulnerabilities. There  are some situations in which a bank may intervene  if they know  their 
customer has vulnerabilities  that can impact  their finances. However, Mr E hasnt told this 
service that he had let Barclays  know about these vulnerabilities, and there  is nothing  in 
Barclays records that would suggest he did. So I think it is fair to conclude that Barclays 
were not put on notice  about Mr Es vulnerabilities. In these circumstances, I wouldnt think  it 
fair to say Barclays ought to have stopped these payments due to concerns over Mr Es 
vulnerabilities. 
Having considered all of this I am persuaded that Barclays actions in processing the 
payments were reasonable, and so wont be asking Barclays to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against  Barclays  
Bank plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254877