K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) cancelled his motor 
insurance policy without  telling him.  
background
After RSA discovered that Mr C had been  speeding, they cancelled his policy. He didnt deny  
the speeding, but he said RSA hadnt warned him about the cancellation, and he only found 
out about it afterwards.  RSA said that they had warned him. So his father, also Mr C, 
brought the complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
RSA had done enough to contact him before  cancelling his policy.  
Mr C disagreed and so the case has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had several speeding incidents  in about a year. RSA detected these through  his cars 
telematics device. His policy allowed them to cancel his policy for that, on giving him notice.
Mr C doesnt deny  the speeding  incidents,  but he said that RSA didnt contact him about  
those or warn him that they would cancel his policy.  He said he didnt receive any emails  
from them or their final 7 day cancellation  warning  letter. He thought that they could have 
done more to make him aware of the cancellation and that they could have sent any letters  
recorded delivery and sent him text alerts. He felt that theyd put him at risk of driving  without 
insurance by not doing those things. And he was concerned that cancellation would affect 
his future  insurance.
RSA showed us that theyd sent Mr C several  emails, one after each speeding incident, to 
warn him that theyd  detected speeding  and that they could cancel his policy if his driving 
behaviour didnt improve. Theyve  shown us that they sent these to the email  address he 
gave them. He didnt  reply to those emails.
Mr C said this was a relatives email address and he didnt receive  them. But , if this were so, 
I dont think that RSA can be responsible for this, as theyd sent the warnings to the correct  
email address that hed given them. 
RSA decided to cancel his policy and sent him a letter giving him 7 days  notice. They  also 
emailed him. The postal address was his correct  address and the letter wasnt  returned  
undelivered. So RSA had no reason to believe  that this letter  wasnt received. And again I 
dont think that its their fault if Mr C didnt  receive  the letter. RSA isnt under  any obligation to 
send letters recorded delivery. It seems  they didnt have a mobile  phone  number for Mr C on 
record, but they werent required to phone him either. They did email  and write to him, so I 
think that what they did do to contact him was enough. 
Ref: DRN90241762Mr C is worried  that the cancellation  would affect his future car insurance.  RSA have offered 
him a new policy  after the cancellation,  so I think theyve been  reasonable in trying to help 
him. But hes a young  driver so I do see that the situation is unfortunate for him. 
However I have to decide if RSA have done  anything wrong here. I dont  think  that they 
have, and so I dont ask them to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024176