K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG), when replacing a cracked  
toilet pedestal,  fitted a replacement that left damage. 
All references to BG include its agents.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in relation to this complaint. Neither BG nor Mr 
and Mrs W have provided me with any further information, so Im going  to confirm  my 
provisional decision.
background
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs W had a problem with their upstairs toilet and called BG to fix 
it under  their BG home emergency policy.
An engineer  from one of BGs contractors attended and replaced the syphon but after hed 
left Mr and Mrs W noticed  a leak from the cistern, so they called BG back.  In the meantime,  
Mr and Mrs W also noticed a hairline crack in the rim of the toilet bowl. A second BG 
engineer came the next day to fix the cistern leak, and the crack  was pointed out to him. 
After the second  engineer had left, Mr W found  he couldnt operate the flush  as it was too 
tight, so he again contacted BG who sent a third engineer who came the same day. The 
crack in the toilet bowl was pointed out to him as well and he said hed report it.
Nothing was done about this crack for some  6 months as Mr W had some health issues,  but 
when Mr W raised  the matter again with BG, it referred him to its contractor. BGs contractor 
stated that it was aware of the crack but disputed that it was responsible for it. It did however  
offer to install a new toilet and cistern if Mr and Mrs W purchased  them.
Mr and Mrs W were offended that BGs  contractor  was denying responsibility  for the crack 
and contacted BG.
BG pointed  out that it wasnt possible to prove whether or not its contractor was responsible 
for the crack.  But it did accept that Mr and Mrs W had been  caused inconvenience whilst 
dealing with health issues, so it offered to replace the toilet  bowl and cistern.  It says it offered 
to replace them as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs W say that they were told that they 
would be replaced  with styles as close as possible to the originals.
The toilet  and cistern  BG supplied and fitted  were both smaller than the originals. The new 
toilet left untiled  floorboards exposed, and the new cistern left undecorated wall exposed 
behind it. Mr and Mrs W say that they are faced  with substantial remediation costs  to replace 
floor tiles and redecorate the wall. Mr and Mrs W say they would prefer  to have  a 
replacement toilet that fits as closely as possible the shape of the original that had to be 
replaced, or else that BG retile the bathroom floor and redecorate  the bathroom wall.
BGs final response was that as the replacement toilet and cistern were  supplied and 
installed as a gesture  of goodwill because  liability couldnt  be proved, it couldnt agree that a  
new toilet and cistern  should be installed,  nor could it carry out any further repairs  to replace 
floor tiles. It said that if Mr and Mrs W wished to buy another unit that would cover the untiled 
floor space, it could arrange  for this to be fitted.
Ref: DRN91205812Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept BGs offer and referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigators opinion  was that a fair outcome in the circumstances of unclear liability  would 
be for Mr and Mrs W to find a toilet and cistern that were a close match for the original ones, 
and that BG pay half of the cost of these, and fit them.
.
Mr and Mrs W dont  agree with the view of our investigator. They believe that even if they 
were able to find a toilet similar to the one that was replaced, there is now tile damage 
behind the toilet  caused by the fitting of the less deep  replacement toilet  and they think  BG 
should repair this. Their complaint has been  passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that theres no evidence as to who or what was responsible for the crack in the 
rim of the original toilet and that BG offered to replace  the toilet and cistern as a goodwill 
gesture. But having seen  photographs of the new toilet and cistern in place, I think these are 
very unsatisfactory as replacements. I dont think that just because something  is a goodwill 
gesture its acceptable  for it to be inferior or for damage to be left that needs to be repaired. 
The fitting of the replacement toilet and cistern very clearly left damage  which  probably 
wouldnt have been caused if ones of similar shape to the originals had been chosen by BG.  
Its left Mr and Mrs W with not just an unsightly  but also a dangerous toilet area as the 
broken tiles are likely to be sharp.
I dont think its fair or reasonable  for BG to have left Mr and Mrs W in this position. And 
according to Mr and Mrs W, by fitting  a different style of toilet  that sits closer to the wall, 
further tiles had to be removed  at the rear of the toilet. The effect  of this is that even if a new 
toilet were now to be installed  that matched the original, there  would now be tiles missing at 
the rear of the toilet that would have  to be replaced.  Mr and Mrs W have told me that it isnt 
possible to find replacement tiles that will match,  so the whole floor,  about  31sqare feet, will 
have to be retiled.
I think that rather than removing the new toilet only to replace it with another one which  will 
still require tiling to be done, the fair and reasonable outcome  would be for the new toilet  and 
cistern to remain in place and for me to require BG to retile the floor and to make  good the 
wall. Ive suggested this to Mr and Mrs W and they would consider this to be an acceptable 
outcome. 
I consider that a newly tiled floor will also compensate  Mr and Mrs W for the inconvenience 
and upset of having to put up with a damaged and potentially  dangerous floor for some time.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint,  and require British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to arrange for Mr and Mrs Ws toilet  floor to be retiled with tiles of a 
similar standard and price which have been selected  or approved  by Mr and Mrs W, and for 
the area around the cistern  to be made  good,  within two months from the date of this 
decision.
Ref: DRN91205813I shall leave it up to BG and Mr and Mrs W to agree as to whether Mr and Mrs W have this 
work undertaken themselves  and be reimbursed by BG for the cost of this, or whether BG 
wishes to undertake this work through its own contractors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.      
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9120581