K822xComplaint
Mrs N has complained that TSB Bank  plc wont compensate her for leaving her without 
access to her account.
Background 
Mrs N raised a fraud complaint with TSB on 18 July 2018. TSB placed an immediate block  
on her account and cancelled her debit card. But it also left her without an active debit card 
from July 2018  to October 2018.
Mrs N said she suffered  serious financial and other hardship by not having  an active  card.  
She said she couldnt pay her rent and was evicted from her accommodation. She couldnt  
travel. Also,  she couldnt  pay a parking fine and now has to pay a penalty charge on top of 
the fine. In addition, she said she has incurred  petrol  expenses, driving  around trying  to sort 
out the problem. And she said she lost her job.
She asked  for compensation  for losing her home,  her job, for the penalty charge, petrol 
expenses and the distress  and inconvenience  of being without a card.
TSB thought the impact  of not having an active  card was minimal. It replied that Mrs N had 
another account with a debit card, which she couldve used to pay her expenses and 
outgoings. And it said her online account  was still active. It didnt think compensation was 
warranted.
Mrs N wasnt happy with TSBs decision, so she brought her complaint to this service. She 
said shed didnt use the second account often and didnt know  where the card was.
Originally, the investigator recommended  that TSB should pay compensation of £250.
TSB thought this was too high and offered £150.  The investigator agreed this was a fair and 
reasonable offer.
Mrs N disagrees  with the investigators view. She believes  both offers are too low. Shes 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB doesnt deny there was a delay  in sending an active card so the only issue in dispute  
now is whether it needs to pay any compensation to Mrs N.
Mrs N says she had no access to the funds in her accounts because  she didnt have an 
active debit card for one account and didnt where  the other card was. So she couldnt pay 
her outgoings and expenses.
However, Ive seen a statement for the second  account. It shows that Mrs N was using the 
debit card for this account frequently in September and October 2018. So I dont think its 
true that Mrs N didnt  know  where the card was. She was clearly using it. 
Ref: DRN98963412Also, her online account was still active so she couldve made transfers  between  the two 
accounts, allowing  her to pay her outgoings  from the second  account.
Besides, Mrs N hasnt provided any evidence proving her losses. And even if she didnt have 
a second account, I wouldve expected her to visit her bank  and make  sure her essential  
outgoings were  paid, for example by setting up direct debits on her account. She could also 
have done this from her online account. It was her responsibility to make  sure her rent and 
other outgoings were  paid.
But there was a three months delay in getting a replacement debit card and so, inevitably, 
there is some trouble and upset of having  to sort things out. But I think  this was minimal.  I 
agree that TSBs offer of £150 is a fair and reasonable settlement offer in these  
circumstances.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mrs N but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint and Im asking TSB Bank plc to pay 
her £150  for her trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896341