K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  The policies  were Cheltenham & Gloucester Plus 
Insurance Policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the first policy with a total mortgage for £65,000  in November 1998. 
The borrowing  was split into three sub-accounts. Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly  amount of 
£32.50 for the policy. It was in the sole name  of Mrs H. 
In the event of a successful claim if Mrs H wasnt able to work because  of accident, sickness 
or unemployment, the policy  would have paid a monthly benefit of £451.78  plus £3.00 for 
every £1,000 they had initially borrowed,  so £195. It would have done so for up to 12 months 
per claim.
Mr and Mrs H took out a further  advance in September 2000 and in June 2001  increased the 
policy to reflect the increase. It would pay out an additional £278.39  per month plus £3.00 for 
every £1,000 borrowed in the event of a successful claim  for up to 12 months. And again, 
the policy was in the sole name of Mrs H. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. After doing  so Ive decided  not 
to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why. 
I think that Lloyds  made Mr and Mrs H aware  they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that they chose  to take it. I say this because Lloyds has been able to give us copies of the 
signed C&G Payment  Protection Plus Proposal Forms which are separate documents  from 
the mortgage applications. Ive also seen copies of the bank  direct  debit instructions signed 
by Mrs H. So I think Mr and Mrs H were aware the policies were separate  from the mortgage  
application and thought  they could be of use to them.
And for the 2001 PPI application, this was taken  out nearly a year after the 2000 mortgage  
advance itself which further makes it clear  the PPI was separate.  
Lloyds has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H for both sales, so it had to 
check it was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think  it 
was. 
Mr H wasnt employed at the time of either application  so couldnt have benefited from the 
policy. Mrs H was employed and was eligible so it seems it was right the PPI was in Mrs Hs 
name only. 
Ref: DRN94423052I think this shows there  was a discussion about the suitability of the policies in light of 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. And I think this makes it likely that Mr and Mrs H were aware 
of the implications of taking the cover, and that they made a choice to take it each time. As 
such, Ive gone on to consider whether theres any other reason to think  the policies might 
have been mis-sold. 
Mrs H has told us she would have received employee benefits of six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay if she was too unwell to work. Mr and Mrs H didn't have any 
savings but Mrs H says Mr H could have helped financially if she wasnt able to work. 
Mr and Mrs H say they didn't need  the policies.  
But the policies  would  have paid the benefits for 12 months if Mrs H made a successful claim 
so would have  covered  the mortgage payments  plus an additional £3.00 for every £1,000 
they had borrowed. Mr and Mrs H didn't have any other financial means such  as savings 
they could have relied on. And while Mrs H says Mr H could have helped financially, he 
wasnt employed during  this time so wasnt receiving  any income.  It seems  unlikely that he 
could have helped.  
As I dont know  what was said in the meetings,  it may be the case  that Lloyds could have
explained the cost of the PPI better  than it did. But, even if it had, I think  Mr and Mrs H 
would still have bought it as the policies could have  been of benefit to them. Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs H would have avoided protecting their mortgage repayments  
for monthly  premiums of just under £33 or £47 the for benefits they could receive, given 
the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against their home - 
particularly while Mr H wasnt in employment and Mrs H was the sole income provider.
Its also possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs H 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. So this doesnt make the PPI 
unsuitable and I dont think it would have made  a difference to Mr and Mrs Hs decision to 
take the cover.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what  theyve said about  
not needing the PPI. But because  of what Ive said above these  points dont change  
my conclusion.
my final decision
Ref: DRN94423053For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9442305