K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that TSB Bank  plc didnt do enough to help them  when they lost 
money as a result of a scam.  
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a
brief summary here. In May 2018 Mr and Mrs B were unfortunately the victims of a scam. 
Mr and Mrs B received an email from their builder requesting a payment of £20,000. They  
made a payment from their bank account  with bank H to the account details provided in the 
email. A few hours after the payment was made, they found out their builders email account  
had been compromised and that theyd sent their money to an account at TSB which  wasnt 
their builders.
As soon  as Mr and Mrs B became aware  of this, they reported the matter to the police and 
informed H  who contacted TSB to recover the funds from the beneficiary account. But by 
the time this happened, most of the funds except for £1,550.92 had been spent. 
TSB concluded its investigations and returned £1,550.92 to H. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy 
with the amount recovered and the time it took. Theyve said that the whole experience  has 
badly affected  them and being unable to pay their builder, who is pursuing them has put 
them under considerable  strain. They think TSB should refund them  the outstanding balance  
of £18,449.08 as it;
-allowed a fraudster  to open and operate an account without the correct checks  being 
carried out;
-did not check account details on receipt of funds;
-did not identify  the inward  or outbound payments as unusual;
-failed to make adequate enquires given the suspicious  nature of the account 
operation; and
-allowed the account to continue operating after being notified  by H of potential  fraud.  
Unhappy with TSBs response Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service, where 
one of our investigators  considered it. He didnt  think we could  look into all aspects of 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint within our jurisdiction  rules. And for what we could consider, he 
didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this and so the matter came  to 
me for a decision.
Part of Mr and Mrs Bs objections and submissions  were  about matters which our service, in 
these circumstances,  does not have jurisdiction  to consider, I spoke  to Mr B explaining  the 
limits on which  parts  of his complaint we can consider and why.
In short,  I said the changes made  to our rules on 31 January  2019  that allow me to consider
a wider range of complaints  about  the actions of a business receiving payments like this,
dont apply in their circumstances as the payment they made was before the rules  came into
effect. 
Ref: DRN92699962So, put simply the concerns Mr and Mrs B have about TSB failing to prevent and/or respond 
to the scam, such as and not limited  to; the opening of the account and whether or not TSB 
failed to identify  anything that should  have alerted it to the fact that this account was being 
used fraudulently are matters this service in their circumstances  does not have the power  to 
consider. 
I clarified Im limited  to considering only those  aspect of their complaint which  relate to
TSBs obligations under regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services  Regulations  2017.
This regulation says:
The payees payment  service provider must co-operate  with the payers  payment service
provider in its efforts to recover  the funds, in particular  by providing to the payers payment
service provider all the relevant  information  for the collection of the funds.
Mr and Mrs B agreed for me go ahead and consider  the aspect  of their complaint this service 
does have the power to look into. 
Taken as a whole, the impact of the above regulation  means that I can consider if TSB has 
co-operated with H, in its efforts to try and recover the funds on behalf of its customer  
Mr and Mrs B. So below I have considered whether  it did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, there is not much I can
add to what the investigator  has already  said about how TSB co-operated with H in its
efforts to recover Mr and Mrs Bs funds.
TSB have  shown a large proportion of the funds Mr and Mrs B paid into the beneficiary 
account were spent on the same day. And that by the time H made it aware  later that day 
at 3.53pm that there  was a problem, only £1,550.92 of Mr and Mrs Bs funds remained to be 
returned  which TSB did return  to H; at a later date,  after completing its internal  
investigations.
Mr and Mrs B have  understandably  expressed concern after being advised by the police that 
payments were allowed to leave  the beneficiary  account after H had notified  TSB of the 
scam. Ive looked closely at the technical  evidence provided by TSB and can confirm  the 
payments on the beneficiary statements appearing dated after H notified  TSB of the scam 
were debit card transactions which were authorised before notification of the scam was 
received from H. 
TSB is unable to cancel  pending transactions as these have been promised to be paid to the 
merchant. They usually  show as pending until they are fully processed, which can take a few 
days  this is not uncommon.  TSB have said as it had blocked the beneficiary account  by 
4.04pm, these payments werent  automatically applied to the account  and were manually 
applied at a later stage.  So, whilst I appreciate the statements  record the payment date as 
over two weeks after the scam was reported   this appears to be administrative rather  than 
reflective of the time those transactions occurred.
Ref: DRN92699963Unfortunately, by the time TSB were notified  and placed blocks  on the account, the majority 
of Mr and Mrs Bs funds had been  spent. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs situation,  but I 
dont think their ability to recover the money  they lost as a result  of the scam was negatively  
impacted by the actions of TSB  it quickly blocked the account  within  11 minutes of 
receiving notification from H and returned  the recovered funds to H after it had carried  out its 
internal investigations. So I cant fairly and reasonably say that TSB failed in its obligation to 
cooperate with H in its efforts to recover  Mr and Mrss Bs money under regulation  90(3) of 
the PSRs. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im satisfied that TSB have acted fairly in the 
circumstances. So Im not upholding this complaint or making  an award.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9269996