K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC approved  his loan application  then later 
rejected it. He also complains about what he believes is a wider problem of Tesco acting in 
this way to increase its approval rating on some websites.
background
Mr L applied for the Tesco  loan via a third party website. He says he was told there was a 
90% chance of approval and so applied.  Mr L says the loan was approved  and he received 
the agreement  from Tesco  which he signed and returned to it. He says the loan was then 
refused and he was forced to take out a loan at a higher  interest rate. Mr L says he wants  
compensation for the extra cost due to the increased interest rate. He also says that he 
believes Tesco is deliberately doing  this to boost its loan approvals on the third part website. 
Mr L wants Tesco to stop this misleading practice.
Tesco doesnt accept  making a mistake  or acting  unfairly. It says it wrote  to Mr L with the 
credit agreement and says it told him that it would carry out final checks  and may reject the 
application. It also says it made clear  that the loan isnt finalised until these checks  are 
carried out, and says its not used misleading  tactics.
Mr L brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt uphold  it. The adjudicator thought  
Tescos letter sending  the loan agreement to Mr L made clear  that final checks would be 
carried out. And so in those circumstances the adjudicator thought  Tesco was entitled  to 
reject the application  when  it carried out those checks. The adjudicator thought  Tesco had 
told Mr L what it based that decision on and provided details of the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) it had used. He also thought  we couldnt tell Tesco who it lent to or tell it 
how to run its business.
Mr L doesnt accept  that view and says he wanted a full investigation into this complaint.  He 
would like to know what the final checks were and what Tescos internal policies are so he 
can make  changes for any future application.  Mr L would like to know why the loan was 
approved then declined and says the adjudicator didnt address his concerns about Tescos  
wider practice. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the letter and pre credit information Tesco gave Mr L. And Im satisfied both 
documents make clear that final checks on Mr Ls loan application will be made before final 
approval. So Im satisfied Tesco made its position clear and that it was entitled  to decline the 
loan application  when it completed its final checks. I appreciate that would have been 
frustrating for Mr L. But Im satisfied Tesco hasnt  made a mistake or acted unfairly and is 
entitled to carry  out those  checks and decide to whom it lends.
I also make  it clear  that I think  its up to a business to decide  what checks  it carries out and 
its also up to a business to make  a commercial decision on such lending. Im satisfied that 
its not our role to interfere  in how a business exercises its commercial judgement. I 
appreciate Mr L would like to know what Tescos internal  policy is on such matters. But for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think hes entitled to such commercially sensitive 
Ref: DRN97739532information. I am satisfied  that Tesco has explained that Mr T is entitled to check the 
information it looked at with the named CRAs.  
I appreciate Mr L would like a full investigation into his complaint and into Tescos wider 
business practice about approving then declining loans. Im satisfied Mr Ls complaint has 
been looked into by Tesco and by us. And for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think it 
made a mistake.  I also make clear to Mr L that we are not the regulator of banks and 
building societies so I cant fairly  comment on any wider problems as Im only dealing with 
Mr Ls complaint. I also cant order an investigation into this wider problem Mr L says is 
going on and cant see in any event Mr L has given us any evidence of a wider problem 
apart from details of his own complaint.
Overall Im satisfied Tesco hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant  order  it to 
pay Mr L the compensation he would like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9773953