K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy following an 
accident. 
background
In September  2017, Mr P was driving and while turning  left into a road he came into contact 
with a pedal cyclist. Damage was caused  to the rear side panel and rear door at the left 
hand side of Mr Ps car. He said the cyclist was to blame as she rode into him. But Aviva 
said he would be held at fault as the evidence suggested he turned into the cyclists path.
The cyclist didnt claim for any injury or damage, but Mr P said he wanted to claim for his 
damage. Aviva said that as they didnt think the cyclist  was at fault, Mr P would  have to claim 
on his policy  and pay an excess. He didnt agree with that so he complained. But Aviva didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr P didnt think that was fair so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that Avivas decision that Mr P was at fault 
was reasonable.  As Mr P didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr P, but I not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr P has made  a number of very detailed points and Ive considered all 
those carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider  to be the key issues.  I cant 
decide who was at fault for the accident.  My role is to decide if Aviva  have  dealt with the 
claim in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with the policy.
The policy gives Aviva  discretion to decide  claims as they feel appropriate. But I expect  them 
to exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable way.
Aviva have experience  in dealing with cases like this and I can see they made  their decision 
after considering Mr Ps account and what the cyclist said happened. They also considered 
the photographs of the scene and the damage to Mr Ps car. 
Ive also seen a statement  provided  by Mr Ps wife. Mr Ps wifes version of what  happened 
is very different to that of Mr P. She said the cyclist cut into the pedestrian  crossing onto the 
footpath before crashing into their car. Mr P in his first account to Aviva made no mention of 
the cyclist going onto the pavement. But Aviva have said the photos of damage to Mr Ps car 
suggest he drove across  the cyclist as there is a dent at the rear panel  and then a long 
scratch along the rear door. Having seen the photos  I can understand why Aviva  reached 
that conclusion.  
There has been some discussion about the cyclists clothing. The cyclist said she was 
wearing bright clothing, in particular bright  orange leggings and bright shoes. Mr P has 
provided some photos of her suggesting  her description of her clothing wasnt accurate. But I 
have seen the photos and it shows her wearing bright coloured leggings  which  appear 
Ref: DRN92178582orange or red. Her shoes arent  visible  in the photos  as she is stood  in long grass.  Her bike 
is also yellow. The photos show a clear, bright  day. Whether or not Mr P feels the description 
of her clothing wasnt as she said, I think there would have been no reason why she wouldnt 
have been visible to other road users.
Mr P was also unhappy that Aviva didnt ask an accident assessor  to examine the damage  
to his car. Aviva said that wasnt necessary as the photos of the damage, together  with all 
the other information  available, was sufficient to enable them to reach a decision. I think that 
was reasonable.
As Aviva decided Mr P was to blame for the accident, they told him that if he claimed on his 
policy he would have  to pay an excess, which is something his policy says he would have to 
do. They said they would also record the claim as Mr Ps fault  on his insurance record,  
which is what all insurers would do in the same circumstances.  So I think Avivas 
consideration of the accident  and their decision was reasonable. Im therefore not upholding 
the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217858