K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs K are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  didnt accept a 
claim made under Mrs Ks motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs K was driving her husbands (Mr A) car, when she was involved in an accident.  They  
say that when Mrs K was driving, she had to brake  causing the car behind, who was trying to 
overtake, to hit the back of Mr As car.
Mrs K made a claim as she was under the impression she was covered when driving  her 
husbands car. RSA declined  the claim as they say her policy included an exclusion which  
said Mrs K wouldnt be covered under her policy when driving her partners car.
Mr A and Mrs K disagreed with RSA. They say that the policy terms are ambiguous which  
gave Mrs K the impression that she could drive Mr As car with his permission,  but that she 
is excluded from driving a car that is either hired or leased to her or Mr A.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She said that she didnt consider the policy 
wording to be unclear  and that RSA provided clear and sufficient information to Mrs K. Mr A 
and Mrs K didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsman  to consider the complaint. They  
remain of the opinion that the exclusion in the policy is ambiguous, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it and Ill explain why.
Mrs Ks policy with RSA says;
you are covered while driving any other car only if all the following apply:
-your certificate of motor insurance shows you have this cover,
-you are driving with the owners  permission,
-you are not entitled to make a claim for the damage under any other  policy of 
insurance,
-the car is not owned by (or hired under a hire purchase agreement by or leased to) 
you or your partner,
-the car is being driven in Great Britain, Northern  Ireland, the Republic of Ireland,  the 
Isle of Man or the Channel Islands 
The policy defines  partner  as the parent, husband or wife of the policyholder  living at the 
same address as the policyholder. This does  not include business partners or associates.
Mr A and Mrs K refer to the term on the motor insurance certificate  which says the 
policyholder may also drive, with the owners  permission, a motor car not belonging to, or 
hired or leased  to them or their partner.  They say this term can be interpreted in more  than 
one way  the term doesnt exclusively mention that Mrs K cant drive her partners car.
Ref: DRN96376992Ive carefully looked at the policy term; including the section Mr A and Mrs K refer to on 
Mrs Ks motor  insurance certificate. 
I can understand Mr A and Mrs Ks upset on this matter but I dont think RSAs  policy  term 
was ambiguous. I say this because I can see that the term that Mr A and Mrs K refer to is 
written on the motor certificate,  without any breaks  or separation in it. So I think the fair way 
to interpret this clause is in its entirety,  rather than considering separate parts of it in 
isolation, as Mr A and Mrs K have suggested. 
Even if Mr A and Mrs K didnt think the term was clear on the motor  certificate,  I think  the 
exclusion in the policy document that RSA refer to, sets out clearly what  Mrs K wouldnt be 
covered for. Therefore,  if Mrs K had any doubt about what her insurance policy covered, I 
think she couldve clarified this with RSA.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ks comment that Mr A gave her permission to drive his car, the car 
was owned by her husband, Mr A. Therefore, the policy still wouldve excluded  her from 
driving Mr As car, regardless of whether he gave permission  or not. So Im satisfied that 
Mrs K wasnt  covered to drive her husbands car under  this policy.
I appreciate Mr A and Mrs K feel strongly  about  this, however, I think  RSA handled Mrs Ks 
claim in line with the policy terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr A and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 15 June  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9637699