K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (formerly known 
as Legal & General Insurance Limited) handled  a claim under their home insurance policy 
after they suffered  an escape of water at their house.
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs D discovered  water damage at their home.  They made a 
claim to Fairmead. It accepted the claim and arranged  for Mr and Mrs D and their family to 
move into alternative accommodation (AA) and to pay them  a disturbance  allowance (DA) to 
cover additional  expenses they would  incur while repair work was undertaken. It was 
anticipated that the repair work would take around two months to complete.
In the event, the damage was discovered  to be greater than first thought and so the duration 
of the repair  work was extended. Fairmead  agreed to extend  the AA and payment  of DA 
accordingly.
Mr and Mrs D eventually moved  back into the property following the completion of the works 
in January 2019. However, before then they had become unhappy with various aspects of 
the handling of the claim.  They complained to Fairmead.
Fairmead issued its final response  letter in February 2019. It acknowledged  there  were  
occasions when  it could have done things better. It offered £100 compensation for any 
trouble or upset  caused.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy  with Fairmeads  response. They  referred their complaint to us.     
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her view,  
Fairmead had generally handled the claim in a reasonable way and, while there were certain 
things which  had gone wrong,  its offer of £100  compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings. They provided photographs taken 
during and after the repair period and made the following points:
the repair work hadnt progressed as quickly as it should;
they disputed  Fairmeads suggestion  that part of the reason for the delay was that 
Fairmeads contractor had to wait for uninsured work to be completed before it could 
continue on the insured work;
while visiting the property, Mr D had discovered  and made safe a damaged electrical  
switch which could  have  otherwise caused a fire;
when the AA was initially extended,  Fairmead  had said it wouldnt carry on paying  the 
full DA which had caused them  a great  deal of upset;
they disputed  the investigators suggestion that the DA paid to them  included  £120 
more than they should have actually received for taxi fares;
Ref: DRN96864932they had to visit the property more times than necessary to discuss the repair  work 
because the contractor changed several  of the tradesmen who it was employing and 
this necessitated  them taking  time off work;  and
they highlighted problems which still existed even after they had moved back into the 
property. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
delays
Mr and Mrs Ds main complaint appears to be about the length of time it took to carry out the 
repairs. I have noted the comments and photographs provided by Mr and Mrs D. But I have 
also noted the file notes  and correspondence provided by Fairmead.
As the investigator  has pointed out, escape of water  claims can often take a long time to 
resolve. I can see that in this case it took four months following the original incident  before 
Mr and Mrs D were able to return to their property. I understand this wasnt  as quick  as they 
would have liked. However, I consider that in general the claim was progressed reasonably 
well.
In broad terms, there was a period of about  one month while the damage  was being 
assessed and start times were agreed. There followed a period of about one and a half 
months during  which asbestos was removed, and the property was stripped out and dried. 
There was finally a period of about  one and a half months, which  spanned the Christmas 
holiday, during  which  restoration work,  including uninsured  work  which  Mr and Mrs D wanted  
doing, was carried  out.
There are points during  the repair work  where arguably things could have been done quicker 
but I dont think  the delays  were  excessive. And while Mr and Mrs D might  dispute how much  
time it added  to the overall repair period, the fact is that they did decide to undertake  some  
work which wasnt covered under the claim and which had an impact on the progress of the 
insured work.
Overall, Im satisfied that the repair work was generally carried  out in a reasonable time 
period.
damaged light switch
Fairmead says that its contractor didnt touch the lighting and so it was likely the switch was 
damaged beforehand. Mr and Mrs D dispute  this but I note that Fairmead agreed to replace 
the switch in any case as a goodwill  gesture. I consider  this was reasonable. Mr and Mrs D 
say that the house could potentially have burned  down but it didnt and I dont consider it 
necessary to award compensation for a potential event which  never occurred.
Ref: DRN96864933payment of DA
When the initial period of AA needed  to be extended, Fairmead first of all indicated it 
wouldnt carry on paying DA at the same rate. This was because it was paying  £35 a day 
towards additional food costs but Mr and Mrs D were staying in accommodation with cooking  
facilities. However, when  Mr and Mrs D complained about Fairmeads decision on the 
grounds that the cooking facilities were inadequate for their needs, it agreed two days  later 
to continue with the payments after all. I consider this was reasonable.
Fairmead also agreed to continue to pay taxi fares at a rate of £10 a day to enable 
Mr and Mrs Ds son to travel to and from school, but it agreed to pay £70 a week for this 
even though he only needed  to make this journey five times a week. It had initially  agreed  
this sum in error, which  meant it overpaid  Mr and Mrs Ds taxi costs by £120 in its initial six 
week DA payment.  I think it would  have been  fair for Fairmead  to reduce the taxi payment 
once it had realised  its error  but it continued  to pay the full amount, meaning  it paid 
Mr and Mrs D at least a further £160  (and possibly £260 once school holidays are taken into 
account) in what was effectively a goodwill gesture. I consider that this was reasonable.
time spent  dealing with the claim   
Mr and Mrs D say that Fairmeads failings meant that they had to spend  much time visiting  
the property and dealing with the claim. However, I consider that much off the inconvenience 
they describe  comes  not from Fairmead  and its actions but from the original incident. It is 
inevitable that an escape of water  of this nature will bring disruption. Fairmead appointed a 
loss adjuster to oversee the repairs so I dont consider  that Mr and Mrs D needed to involve 
themselves in the management of the work.  The loss adjuster and Fairmeads contractor 
naturally needed their input at certain times  to advise  on their preferences. Mr and Mrs D say 
that they had to go through  these conversations on more occasions than necessary because  
the contractor replaced the tiler and plumber before the discussed  work had been carried  
out. If that is the case then it is unfortunate and I can appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ds frustration 
but changes of personnel will sometimes be necessary and I cant  reasonably say that 
Fairmead is at fault for this. Overall,  I dont consider that Mr and Mrs D have shown that 
Fairmeads poor handling meant they were required to spend  a disproportionate amount of 
their time dealing with claims  issues. And so I dont  consider that any compensation is 
warranted in respect  of this.
problems on moving  back in to the property
Mr and Mrs D have highlighted certain  things which they consider were still wrong with the 
property when the moved back  in. Fairmead provided photos of the property immediately 
before Mr and Mrs D were due to move  back in and I consider these show  the property 
generally to be in a good, clean state.
Mr and Mrs D raised  concerns about a bathroom architrave which  they thought needed  to be 
removed and refitted.  However, I can see that Fairmead agreed to cover  the cost to address 
their concerns, even  though it felt the problem had been caused by Mr and Mrs Ds choice of 
wall tile, which was thicker than the original.  I think this was reasonable on the part of 
Fairmead.
Mr and Mrs D also raised concerns about  loose kitchen floor tiles. Fairmead arranged for 
these to be re-fitted. Again, I think this was reasonable.   
Ref: DRN96864934summary
I recognise that Mr and Mrs D have been through a difficult time and are very upset over 
their experience. However,  I have to differentiate between the trouble which  would inevitably 
have been caused to them by the escape  of water incident, and that which has been  caused 
by poor complaints handling on the part of Fairmead. As I have explained above, I consider 
that Fairmead has generally handled the claim in a reasonable  way. There have been some  
things which  Fairmead  could have done better. For example, when Fairmead agreed to a 
cash settlement for damaged electrical goods  it sent a cheque  which  was made  out to the 
wrong person.  It had to reissue  this which led to a delay of approximately two weeks  in 
Mr and Mrs D receiving the money.  However, I am satisfied that its offer of £100 
compensation for this and any other poor service  issues is reasonable. I dont consider it 
needs to pay anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9686493