K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan. Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
this policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O applied for a £2,000 loan from Nationwide in 1996.  At that time they were  sold 
PPI to cover the repayments on their loan if Mr O was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy they bought  was paid for by a single 
premium which was added to their loan and therefore attracted interest. As well as providing 
PPI cover for Mr O, the policy  also gave Mr and Mrs O joint life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view,  so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint  for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs O say that their loan was taken  out with Nationwide  over the phone  and Ive 
taken this to be the case. Nationwide dont have a recording of this call, which isnt that 
surprising given how long ago it took place.  But this means I cant  be sure exactly  what was 
said to Mr and Mrs O about  PPI during the call. However, Ive seen a copy of the letter  
which Nationwide sent to them following the call, together with their loan agreement and 
PPI policy  document.  And I can see that the loan agreement clearly shows the PPI as 
optional and gives details  of its costs separate to those for the principal loan.
From what  Ive seen, and from what I know more generally about Nationwides  normal  
sales process at the time, I dont think its likely that it would have added the PPI unless 
Mr and Mrs O had agreed to take it. And if Nationwide  hadnt  obtained  Mr and Mrs Os 
agreement to the PPI during the call, I think they would have queried why cover described 
as optional had been added to the cost of their loan. So on balance,  I think its most  likely 
that Mr and Mrs O actively  decided to take out the policy knowing they had a choice. But I 
can understand why they might not remember this now.
Mr and Mrs O say they cant  remember  whether the policy was recommended to them. But 
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend PPI to customers at that time. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Nationwide did recommend  the policy  based on Mr and Mrs Os 
specific circumstances then. This means that it didnt need to ensure  that the policy  was 
suitable for them. But Nationwide still needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs O enough 
information for them to decide if they wanted  to buy it. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs O received details of the cost of the policy when they were sent 
their loan agreement.  And they also appear to have received  a policy  document  at that time 
which gave them information about  the policys  terms and conditions. But I dont  know what  
Ref: DRN95180632information was given to them about  the policy during the original telephone call when it was 
sold to them.  So its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs O at the time 
of the sale wasnt  as good as it could have been. But I dont think  better information would 
have changed  their mind  about buying it. I say this because:
Although a joint loan, Mr O was named as the Principal Insured Customer  and was the 
only person covered  by the policys PPI accident, sickness  and unemployment cover if 
unable to work. And it appears that Mr O was eligible for the PPI and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations.  As well as this PPI cover, the policy also gave 
Mr and Mrs O joint life cover.
Mr O says he was eligible for generous sick pay from his employer.  But the PPI policy 
would have paid out in addition  to this. And it could have  provided  a benefit for longer  
than Mr Os sick pay would have fully covered  them. So I still think  that they would have 
valued the extra security the PPI gave them if things went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs O say that the loan was taken out to refinance existing debts. This means 
that it could have been more  likely  that they would decide  to repay this loan early  with 
another one. But in such circumstances,  Nationwide would have given them  a 
proportionate refund of the single  premium PPI they paid. So I dont think this would 
have put them off taking the PPI, even if this wasnt fully explained  to them  by 
Nationwide at the time of the sale.
So on the basis of the information  available to me, I dont  think that Mr and Mrs O have lost 
out by anything that Nationwide  may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive carefully thought  about the reasons  why Mr and Mrs O say they didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, but these dont change my mind about not upholding their complaint.
Mr and Mrs O say that Mrs O wasnt eligible for the policy because she didnt work at least  
sixteen hours a week. But Mr O appears to have been the main earner and was named as 
the Principal Insured Customer on the agreement.  I think its reasonable to assume  that it 
was his income that was most  important in supporting their loan repayments. Mrs O was 
only provided with life cover under the policy - jointly with her husband. And I dont think 
Mrs Os working  hours would have been a relevant consideration for the insurer  in assessing  
her eligibility for this additional  element of the cover provided by the policy.
Mr and Mrs O also say that they have been  offered compensation  for other similar  PPI mis-
sales on loans and so this sale should  also be upheld. But this service looks  at the individual 
circumstances of each  complaint  which  is referred  to us. So the fact that other,  apparently 
similar, PPI sales to them have been upheld wouldnt  have any direct bearing on the 
outcome of this one.
Mr and Mrs O say that Nationwide  has conducted a number of financial reviews with them 
over the years during which it provided them  with financial advice. But this complaint is about 
whether Nationwide mis-sold them a PPI policy with a loan in 1996.  And I dont think  the fact 
that Nationwide may have  provided  them with some  advice  about their financial affairs on 
other occasions is really  relevant to whether they were mis-sold PPI on this loan.
Ref: DRN95180633Mr and Mrs O were also unhappy with the way their original complaint  has been handled by 
Nationwide. I understand that Nationwide have acknowledged that there were  failings  in the 
service provided to Mr and Mrs O when dealing with their complaint. And its paid them  £125  
for these  failings and the distress and inconvenience they caused. I think this payment is fair 
in these circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im not upholding this complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9518063