K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Cabot Credit Management  Group Limited (trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited is wrongly  pursuing  her for a debt and hasnt acted fairly.
background
Ms A complained when she was contacted by Cabot about  a past debt. She said that she 
thought this was a scam and that she was still in contact with the original lender about it. She 
also suggested that in any event some  of the borrowing was fraudulent.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that Cabot had 
bought the debt and so was entitled to be provided  with the information  held about her in 
relation to the borrowing. Hed seen  the original application form for the account in 2006 and 
that statements  were  sent to Ms A at her home address by the original lender. Ms A hadnt 
raised any claim that payments had been fraudulent. There  was no evidence  that there was 
PPI linked to this borrowing. And Ms A would need to raise  the correspondence  she was 
receiving from the original lender about this account  with it directly. He understood  that Ms A 
had been reluctant to speak to Cabot  but that meant  it had acted on what  it knew.
Ms A didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  Cabot  had 
taken legal action  after the complaint had been referred to this service in breach of 
regulations. She still understood  the original lender had taken the account  back  and she was 
looking to get evidence about this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A originally  complained about  her borrowing originating with two different  financial 
businesses and that was being  dealt with by Cabot.  It obtained a County Court  Judgment  
relating to one and an ombudsman colleague issued a decision dismissing Ms As complaint 
about that debt.  So I wont be considering that here.
I appreciate Ms A has said she was waiting for some information and thought that the 
original financial business had taken back the debt. She provided a copy  of a letter  it had 
sent to her in October 2017 quoting  her account number  and mentioning  changes  to the 
terms of the accounts.  Im afraid  I dont  see that as anything more than a general  letter  to all 
relevant customers.  It doesnt establish  for me that there is still a live account at that 
business or that this is where  the relevant debt is now held. And I think Ms A has had 
sufficient time to provide evidence if that were the case including  if she had PPI linked to this 
borrowing.
That financial business has told this service  that following  default  the debt was sold to a 
different third party in March 2014. And Ive seen that this third party then sold the debt to 
Cabot on 21 October 2016 and wrote  to Ms A to tell her this. There was a right for this to 
happen and for the new lender to receive  all the information held about  Ms A. But I fully 
appreciate why this caused Ms A concern. My understanding is that when she contacted 
Cabot it initially told her it couldnt locate the debt and wanted more  information. Thats  what  
led Ms A to think this was a scam. Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Cabot 
are the legitimate owners  of this debt.
Ref: DRN92465232Ive seen the original  application form and the statements  for the account.  Im satisfied that 
this was a genuine agreement taken  out in Ms As name. And theres  no evidence of any 
specific transactions being disputed with the original  financial business such  that it could 
investigate them at the time. So I find on balance  that all of the borrowing shown on the 
statements is the responsibility of Ms A. That amount is consistent with the level Cabot now 
says she owes it.
Ms A has been reluctant  to engage further  with Cabot. I know shes had some personal 
difficulties but it couldnt  take these into account  unless it was aware  of them.  Matters  have  
been on hold for some  time while this complaint is being investigated  by our service. But Im 
afraid it will be necessary for Ms A to discuss her plans for repayment with Cabot. I would 
expect it to act positively and sympathetically  and take account  of her financial 
circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9246523