K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how IFS Financial Management Limited has managed his self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP).  Mr K says hes missed out on growth in the value of his SIPP.  He 
wants compensation for this. 
background 
Mr K had a group  pension plan through his employer. This was administered by IFS. He also 
had a separate pension  plan that IFS wasnt involved with. In August 2015 Mr K got in touch 
with IFS about his pension arrangements. Hed been wondering  whether he should be more 
proactive in managing the performance of his pension funds.
IFS suggested moving both of Mr Ks pension funds into a SIPP.  This took several months to 
organise. The existing  pensions were transferred to the SIPP  at the end of April 2016. IFS 
told Mr K that the money being transferred would  first be put into a cash fund, before moving 
things around depending on the market conditions at the time. This was only a short time 
before the Brexit  referendum.  
The following  month, IFS sent all its clients, including Mr K, a market  review. Amongst other 
things, this set out IFS view on how the referendum  might affect UK share  prices.  A few 
days before  the referendum, Mr K contacted IFS. He was unsure what  he needed to do to 
protect his pension fund against market uncertainty. During an exchange  of several emails, 
IFS, told Mr K his pension was sat in cash and money market  funds. It told Mr K his fund 
was safe. 
In July 2016, IFS produced a post referendum market review.  Again, this was sent to Mr K. 
This review outlined IFS thinking about  the economic situation  at the time. It seems there 
was then no contact  between IFS and Mr K for a few months.  In October  2016,  Mr K emailed 
IFS asking about  the state of his pension funds. It told him he was still invested in cash. IFS 
said its advice would  be to leave things alone while  share  values were  at such  a high level.  
IFS also said it wasnt able to alter Mr Ks pension fund without his permission. 
Mr K suggested a face to face meeting with IFS. It asked him to confirm dates he was 
available to meet. The following month IFS sent Mr K a four page review  of its thoughts on 
his pension fund.  It again invited Mr K to get in touch to set up a meeting. It asked him to 
confirm receipt of the email, which he did around  two weeks later.
At the end of December 2016  IFS sent Mr K an updated valuation  for his SIPP. This showed 
over 96% of the fund was invested  in either cash or money market  funds. A further  valuation  
report was sent to Mr K in mid-March  2017.
The following  month Mr K emailed IFS saying that the most significant  movement in his fund 
were adviser charges.  He pointed out that he knew that IFS had a zero  charge 
arrangement with another of its clients. He went on to say that as his situation was the 
same as the other  client, hed hoped IFS would have voluntarily offered him a similar deal. 
IFS replied saying its arrangements  with other  clients were nothing  to do with Mr K. It went  
on to say it found the tone of Mr Ks email  offensive. IFS instructed the SIPP  provider to stop 
all fees paid to it. It said, among other  things, it would carry out any written  instructions it was 
given by Mr K to alter his portfolio,  but after two weeks  it would stop acting as his adviser   
which it did. 
Ref: DRN96672322Then in October  2017, Mr K complained to IFS. In summary, he said: the level of service 
given to him by IFS fell woefully short of what he expected; IFS didnt attempt  to follow  a 
strategy that would ever have delivered the expected growth to his fund;  and, the strategy 
followed by IFS wasnt in line with his balanced  risk profile, instead it followed a risk averse 
strategy which meant hed lost out financially. 
IFS rejected Mr Ks complaint. Again in summary,  it said: IFS isnt a discretionary fund 
manager, it needed Mr Ks consent to make any changes to his portfolio;  and Mr K 
repeatedly chose not to enter  into dialogue  with IFS. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service.  Mr K said the response 
from IFS didnt  explain  why IFS initially placed his pension funds into cash  and then 
continued to recommend that these funds  should remain  in cash despite  the continuing 
strengthening of the financial markets. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In 
brief, he said; it was prudent to park the money  in cash due to the uncertainty  around the 
referendum; IFS couldnt then make any changes to Mr Ks portfolio without his explicit 
permission; it was clear that IFS tried to arrange  meetings  with Mr K but these never seemed 
to happen; both parties got frustrated; and IFS was entitled to end the relationship.  
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view. Again in brief, he said: the relationship 
breakdown is not relevant to his complaint; it was never agreed  that the transfers to the SIPP  
would initially be invested in cash;  the concerns around the referendum were  soon set aside 
by the swift gains in share prices; while he didnt object to the money being parked in cash, 
he does object to it having been left in cash while the markets then went from strength  to 
strength; and, IFS made  no recommendations to him during the time the markets  were 
rising. 
As Mr K didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  this complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here: was the service  provide  by IFS reasonable; and was it reasonable for IFS to keep 
Mr Ks portfolio invested in cash? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill now turn to the level of service IFS provided  to Mr K, starting  with the opening  of the 
SIPP. I can see they first started talking  to each other in August 2015 about  IFS looking after 
Ref: DRN96672323Mr Ks pension  funds. The following month  IFS sent him an initial  report setting out the pros 
and cons of his current situation. The report enclosed various documents and said it was 
designed to be a discussion starting point.  It ended by telling Mr K to ring IFS if he wanted  to 
take things forward.  It also emailed Mr K to let him know the report  was in the post. 
It seems  that Mr K then didnt contact IFS for three  months. He emailed IFS shortly  before 
Christmas 2015. Mr K apologised for not getting  in touch  sooner, explaining  hed been  busy  
with personal matters. He said he had the documents IFS had sent him and wanted to meet  
in early 2016. The following day IFS replied asking Mr K if had any idea of what date he 
wanted to meet. It also explained the adviser would be on holiday in the early part of 
January. 
Mr K then emailed IFS on 21 January 2016. He said perhaps they should confirm their 
meeting as soon  as IFS was available. The available  evidence  shows  that IFS met with Mr K 
sometime during March 2016. There  was then a query over the status of the pension 
contributions being  made by Mr Ks employer.  Once  this was sorted out, IFS sent Mr K the 
application pack to merge his existing pensions into a SIPP.  This was on 31 March 2016.  
The application pack confirmed  that in the short-term everything would be put into a cash 
fund until all the money had been moved and everything set up. It said that this could then 
be changed as market  conditions  dictated. The forms were signed by Mr K on 4 April 2016 
and presumably returned to IFS shortly afterwards. 
The transfer of Mr Ks existing pensions was complete by the end of April 2016. This is 
around eight months after Mr K began talking to IFS about looking after his pensions. The 
available evidence shows  that for a significant part of this time, Mr K was busy dealing with 
personal matters, as hes perfectly entitled  to do, and didnt have the time to reply  to IFS. 
Im satisfied that the level of service provided  by IFS during this period  was what would be 
reasonably expected. Theres no evidence  that IFS delayed arranging to meet  with Mr K. 
Once that meeting took place, and the necessary paperwork completed by Mr K, the transfer 
to the SIPP  took place  only a few weeks later. Again, I think  this level of service  was 
reasonable. 
Ill now move  on to the level of service  provided by IFS once the transfers to the SIPP  were  
completed. At the end of May 2016, IFS sent its clients, including Mr K, a market review.  
This covered, among  other things, how the impending Brexit referendum might  affect  
investment markets. 
Then, a couple of days before the referendum, there was an email exchange between  IFS 
and Mr K. This stated  that its advice to him was still to leave his funds in cash for the time 
being. IFS also re-assured Mr K that his fund was safe. 
Shortly after the referendum, IFS sent a post referendum market  review to Mr K. This was 
dated 18 July 2016. The review suggested that clients  should  hold off buying shares while  
prices remained high.  
Three months later, Mr K emailed IFS querying  the status of his SIPP.  It quickly replied 
stating the SIPP was still invested in cash. It repeated  its advice to leave things as they were 
due to the high level of the stock market.  A few days after this Mr K suggested a face to face 
discussion. IFS asked  him to confirm when he was available. The available  evidence  doesnt 
show that Mr K responded to this email.  
Ref: DRN96672324The next communication shows that IFS had arranged for Mr K to have  online  access to his 
SIPP. On 11 November  2016 IFS also sent Mr K a detailed review  of his SIPP. The next 
month it sent Mr K a further  portfolio report. A further SIPP valuation report  was sent mid-
March 2017. The relationship ended  the following month. 
I can see from the above that once the SIPP was set up, IFS was in regular contact with 
Mr K. It sent him regular updates on the state of his SIPP,  along  with several market 
reviews. IFS also responded promptly to any queries from Mr K. So Im also satisfied that the 
level of service provided by IFS during this period was reasonable and in line with what  I 
would expect to see. 
Mr K told our investigator  that the breakdown of his relationship with IFS isnt relevant to his 
complaint. I accept this is the case. But for completeness, I would point out the IFS client  
agreement does allow for the early termination  of the relationship by either party. 
Finally, Ill turn to Mr Ks pension funds being  held in cash. He challenged our investigators  
view that it was agreed his funds  would initially be held in cash. But as Ive said above,  in the 
letter from IFS to Mr K dated 31 March 2016, it states that his money will be put into cash 
until everything is set up. It also says that things could be changed around as market 
conditions dictate. I can also see that the letter confirms at that time IFS was advising clients  
to err on the side of caution until the picture  regarding the referendum was complete.  
This letter also states, quite clearly,  that IFS thought the next year would be difficult.  It said it 
would primarily be more  concerned about  protecting what Mr K already had in his pension  
pot. IFS went on to say it feared that there  wouldnt be much profit  over the next year. Mr K 
signed the relevant documents and returned  these to IFS after receiving this letter.  So I dont 
accept that Mr K didnt  agree his fund would initially be invested in cash. If he had any 
concerns over this approach, he could have  raised  them with IFS before his existing funds 
were transferred to the SIPP. 
As Ive also said above, IFS sent Mr K a market review at the end of May 2016. This covered 
how the upcoming referendum  might affect investment markets. The report  set out that if the 
result was to leave the EU, then a market blip should be anticipated. 
The exchange of emails just before the referendum  confirms that Mr Ks funds were  being 
held in cash, as do the reports provided  by IFS in November and December 2016 and also 
March 2017. 
Mr K says the strategy  followed by IFS wasnt in line with his balanced risk profile  - instead  it 
followed a risk averse strategy. I dont  accept this. Its not disputed that Mr K had a balanced 
attitude to risk. This is confirmed in the Client Information Form signed by Mr K on 4 April 
2016. This form also confirmed that the level of risk acceptable to him over 12 months was a 
loss of between  5% and 10%. 
In an email to IFS on 21 June 2016,  Mr K says hes not sure whether  he should be doing 
anything to protect his funds against the market uncertainty,  or if IFS had already taken care 
of that for him. IFS told him it was in hand, and it repeated its advice  to leave things as they 
were until after the referendum and then make a decision depending on what  happened. 
Mr K told us he didnt object to the money being parked in cash.  But the concerns around the 
referendum were soon set aside  by the swift gains  in the share price. He was unhappy  that 
IFS didnt do anything  with his pension pot while the markets went from strength to strength. 
Ref: DRN96672325But I dont agree that IFS didnt do anything. It produced its post referendum market review 
in July 2016. The review set out that IFS thought  share prices were  too high and it would 
wait until the market had dropped before investing further. At the time,  Im satisfied this was 
consistent with making  sure any losses to Mr Ks SIPP  were  between his stated  risk level of 
5% and 10% . It doesnt automatically mean the strategy it was following was risk averse. 
It seems  to me that IFS view was that bigger profits could potentially  be made if Mr K waited 
until share prices came  down. While hindsight shows this didnt happen, Im satisfied this 
was a reasonable position to take at the time.  
Similar advice was given  to Mr K by IFS in November 2016. It recommended waiting for a 
larger correction to the market as it saw too much  of a downside  to buying shares at that 
time. The covering  letter  with IFS December portfolio report  again  confirmed it was happy 
with how Mr Ks SIPP was invested. Again, Im satisfied this was a reasonable position to 
take at that time  and it wasnt inconsistent  with a balanced risk profile.  
Mr K says IFS made  no investment recommendations  while the markets were rising.  Clearly, 
this isnt quite  right. As Ive set out, IFS advice  in July, November and December 2016 was 
consistent  Mr Ks SIPP should be left as it was. 
I would also point out that IFS isnt a discretionary fund manager.  It couldnt make any 
investment choices for Mr K without his specific instructions. Im satisfied that Mr K knew,  or 
should have known this was the case.  IFS gave him various documents confirming this was 
the case before the SIPP was set up. These  included its terms of business, service 
proposition, wealth management  summary  document and template portfolio guide. 
Having considered all the above,  Im satisfied IFS provided Mr K with a level of service that I 
would reasonably expect it to. IFS managed  his SIPP as it said it would in its letter dated 31 
March 2016, before the transfers of the existing  pensions.  Im also satisfied that it was 
reasonable advice for Mr K to keep his pension pot in cash  while  IFS was acting as his 
adviser. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9667232