K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains DTW Associates Limited  irresponsibly approved  him for a logbook  loan.  He 
says the loan was unaffordable  at the time it was approved. 
background
Mr H was approved for a logbook loan in May 2018.  The loan was for £2,500 and was to be 
repaid over 24 months with repayments  of approximately £250.
At the time the loan was approved Mr H says he was in financial difficulties and couldnt 
afford the loan. Mr H says had proper checks been completed by DTW  it wouldve seen that 
he had a number  of existing credit commitments,  which  he was struggling to maintain. 
DTW responded to Mr Hs complaint saying it had completed  reasonable and proportionate  
checks before deciding to lend to him. It says it completed an income and expenditure 
check, which was verified  with bank statements. It also completed a credit search. It says 
after completing these  checks, it concluded Mr H had sufficient disposable  income to meet 
the monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator looked into the cases, and eventually agreed  with DTW. She felt the checks  
which DTW had completed were sufficient and that they showed Mr H had enough 
disposable income to meet the repayments.
Mr H disagreed with these findings and as such the matter has been passed  to me to issue a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service has also set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible  and 
unaffordable lending  on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs 
complaint. In relation to the rules, regulations, guidance and good  industry practice, which  
applied at the time, Im satisfied there are two overarching questions  which  I need to 
consider in this instance. These  are:
Ref: DRN952996721.Did DTW  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay these loans  in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those  checks  have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2.Did DTW  act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Turning to the first of two questions; the regulations which applied at the time, required DTW 
to carry out an assessment on whether  Mr H could repay any loan in sustainable way. These 
checks are referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check. 
In making this affordability assessment, DTW needed to ensure any checks were  borrower-
focused. This means DTW needed  to consider  if any repayments  Mr H made would cause 
him any financial difficulties or have  any adverse  consequences on his finances. The checks  
also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances  of the loan which  was being 
approved. 
The relevant  rules dont  set out which specific checks it has to complete for them  to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include things such  as a 
customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing expenses.  These 
checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit  being provided 
including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total length of the term. In 
practice generally this means that the lower the income of an applicant,  or the longer  the 
term of any loan, the more thorough the checks need to be for them to be proportionate to 
the circumstances. 
It is also not sufficient for DTW to just complete proportionate checks.  It also needs to 
carefully consider  the information it is provided before it makes a decision to lend. 
Finally, it is also important  to note that the fact Mr Hs loan was a logbook loan, and therefore  
included security in the form of his car as an asset,  didnt remove or anyway lessen the 
obligations which applied  to DTW at the time Mr H applied for the loan. 
This loan was for £2,500  and was to be repaid over 24 months with repayments  of 
approximately £250. So DTW needed  to complete an affordability  assessment which  was 
proportionate to this amount and term.
DTW says it completed an income and expenditure check, as well as completing a credit  
check on Mr H. It also obtained 60 days worth of bank  statements from Mr H. During the 
course of these checks Mr H declared  his income  as £1,775  with outgoings amounting  to 
approximately £650. DTW  noted  that within these outgoings Mr H said £300  was for existing 
credit commitments  he had. 
Ref: DRN95299673The credit report DTW  obtained showed that Mr H had existing credit, and had some  issues  
maintaining his finances. Two of Mr Hs credit / store  card accounts at the time were either in 
arrears or had entered  into arrangements to pay. The total amount of debt Mr H had on his 
existing credit / store cards was approximately £7,500. Mr H also had two existing loans 
which had an existing  combined total of approximately £9,000  (albeit the report suggested 
these loans were being  maintained on time). He had a number of settled loan and short-term 
credit accounts which had been  settled  in the past two to three  years. However, the rest of 
Mr Hs accounts were  maintained relatively  well  including having two current  accounts 
active at the time. 
Mr Hs bank statements showed that his outgoings  were higher than those declared. This 
included payments for food, housing and existing credit commitments. However,  the 
statements demonstrated Mr Hs declared  income  of £1,775  was accurate. 
DTW says based on these checks, and the information it showed it at the time,  its decision 
to lend was reasonable. It says Mr H demonstrated  he had disposable income  which 
wouldve meant Mr H was able to afford the loan. 
Mr H says DTW shouldve  completed further checks, such as checking  his second current 
account and/or getting further  information  of his existing credit  commitments. 
Having carefully considered these searches and checks, Im satisfied that they were 
proportionate in this instance. Im satisfied the checks were proportionate  as they gave DTW 
a sufficiently detailed  insight into Mr Hs financial  affairs  before it decided  to lend. 
I say this because  DTW  verified  Mr Hs declared income and expenditure with his credit  
report and a proportionate amount of bank statements. I appreciate Mr H disagrees with this, 
however DTW was entitled to rely on the information Mr H had provided. DTW did also take 
into consideration Mr Hs existing credit commitments when calculating and verifying Mr Hs 
outgoings, so I cant say it didnt consider these when making  proportionate  searches. 
Ultimately the checks DTW completed  needed to be sufficient for it to make  a reasonably 
informed decision to lend.  Im satisfied in this instance these checks  allowed DTW  to do this, 
and as such it follows that I find them to be proportionate.
As I consider the checks DTW completed to be proportionate, Ive gone onto consider 
whether its decision  to lend was fair. As Ive outlined above, just because a lender 
completed proportionate checks, it still needs  to carefully consider  the information  before it 
makes a decision to lend. 
Mr H says the loan was unaffordable.  He has explained to our service that he had issues  
with two of his credit / store card accounts, and that he had other accounts which  if 
considered would have shown he didnt  have sufficient income. Mr H also says he had two 
existing loans which had a combined outstanding balance of approximately  £9,000. He says 
at the time of applying for the loan he was experiencing financial hardship. 
DTW has told our service  that after reviewing the bank statements, it then applied an 
additional amount of expenditure to the outgoings shown on the bank statements provided. It 
says this additional amount was based  on national  average statistics.  DTW says it did this to 
take into account further fluctuations in Mr Hs outgoings and to stress test the affordability 
assessment.
Ref: DRN95299674DTW say the original income and expenditure check, coupled with Mr Hs bank statements 
showed he had an income of around  £1,775 and outgoings of approximately  £825. This 
number was based on the information in the bank statements and the additional expenditure 
amount. And it was higher  than the outgoings  Mr H had originally declared. DTW  also says 
after it added the inflated outgoings  figure  above  (to cover any changes in Mr Hs outgoings) 
it still left Mr H with sufficient disposable income. It says the inflated figure wouldve given Mr 
H outgoings of approximately  £1,450. This would mean he would have over £300 disposable 
income which was over the necessary  amount needed for his monthly repayments. 
Ive considered Mr Hs argument, but in this instance, I disagree with him. DTW  has 
explained to our service  how it has used  third party information as well as what was in Mr 
Hs bank statements to calculate an expenditure amount which has sufficient margin to cover 
any reasonable changes in Mr Hs outgoings  and would reasonably include any payments 
Mr Hs was making towards his other accounts including his loan and credit  cards.  I 
appreciate Mr H says DTW shouldve considered his other current account, but as Ive 
explained above I consider DTWs checks to proportionate in this instance.  That is to say, I 
dont think DTW needed to review them, and as such  it was entitled to rely on the 
information which it did have at the time. That would include the credit file search, the bank 
statements which Mr H had provided  and his declarations. 
Looking at all of the information  which has been  provided Im satisfied that DTW  has 
demonstrated at the time Mr H had sufficient disposable income to meet the necessary 
repayments. As such it follows that Im satisfied DTWs decision to lend was fair.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H wouldve wanted, but I hope my explanation is 
sufficient to explain the reasoning behind my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9529967