K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Mapfre Asistencia Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
SA (Mapfre), took too long to settle his claim and that its settlement figure wasnt  realistic.  
Reference to Mapfre also includes its agents. 
background
Mr S took out annual  travel insurance  for himself and his family before going  on a camping  
trip. He was the main policyholder and his wife and daughters were named on the policy, 
which was provided  by Mapfre. 
Mr S and his family were staying at a holiday  park when a sewage pipe leaked. This caused  
severe damage to a number of their belongings,  including their tent. Mr S made  a claim to 
Mapfre for items that cost around £1,100  when  they bought them. 
Mapfre didnt consider the claim for some  time,  as it said it was waiting to find out whether 
the holiday parks  insurer  would settle  Mr Ss claim.  Mr S chased an update and, around  five 
months after he submitted  the claim,  Mapfre settled  it for £415.10. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with the settlement  and particularly  the amount allowed for his tent. 
He said the settlement figure didnt even  cover what that cost. Mr S asked Mapfre  to 
recalculate the figures and said he wasnt happy  about how long it had taken to deal with his 
claim.  
In its final response letter  (FRL) Mapfre said it wasnt able to progress Mr Ss complaint any 
sooner, as it was awaiting a response  from the holiday parks  insurer.  It invited Mr S to 
complain to our service if he wasnt happy. 
Mapfre sent a second  FRL to Mr S to address his concerns about the settlement of his claim 
in particular. It said that in line with the terms of Mr Ss policy,  it was entitled to make  
percentage deductions for wear and tear according to the number of years  since the items 
were bought. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with Mapfres response, so he complained  to us. An investigator looked 
into Mr Ss complaint and felt that Mapfre hadnt acted fairly when settling his claim.  
Mapfre later increased its settlement offer to £545.25, as it noted a mistake in its original 
calculations. But Mr S didnt accept the revised offer. So, the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide. 
I sent Mr S and Mapfre my provisional decision on 10 February 2020 and said why I 
intended to uphold the complaint. Ive included relevant sections of my reasoning below. 
my provisional findings
Mr S isnt happy about the amount Mapfre allowed for his tent. Whilst he knew that it would 
make deductions for things such as wear and tear, he says the deductions it made are 
unrealistic because they ranged from 10-70%.  And  having looked at Mapfres settlement 
calculations, I agree its deducted  too much for some of the items, including the tent. 
Ref: DRN92987852Looking at the terms of the policy, I can see it includes a clause  that says Mapfre will 
reimburse for damaged items after applying a deduction for wear and tear and loss of 
value. And it then goes  on to say that after applying deductions for age, wear and tear and 
loss of value,  Mapfre could deduct  a further  10% for items over £100 where proof  of 
purchase couldnt be given.  
So, its clear that Mr Ss policy didnt include reimbursing him for damaged items equivalent 
to the replacement cost as new.  And Ive noted Mr Ss point in his complaint to us, that 
Mapfre said the value  of his tent before deductions was £500  (which was the price he paid 
for it) when hed claimed £750. But, I dont  think Mr S is making the right comparison.  
Thats because he seems  to be suggesting  that Mapfre  should be considering the cost of a 
similar specification  of tent if bought today and then making a deduction  from this amount. 
But - given the terms of Mr Ss policy - Im satisfied  that Mapfre  was right to take account of 
its original cost as opposed  to the cost today.  
Mr S wasnt  able to provide receipts  for all of the items claimed for. But, I can see that he 
provided lots of other evidence, including photographs, to help Mapfre  assess  the claim. 
And Mapfre did accept Mr Ss evidence as a means  of working  out the original cost of the 
items within his claim. Whilst  it clearly  shouldnt have deducted an additional 10% for lack of 
proof of ownership, it has now agreed  to remove this reduction.  
Mr Ss policy  didnt  state what level of deductions for wear  and tear and loss of value Mapfre  
was entitled to apply. And I dont think thats  necessarily  unusual, as not all policies have 
that level of detail included. But I do think it would have been  helpful had Mapfre at least 
explained to Mr S why it had deducted such large amounts, so that he could understand 
them more  fully, especially as it made  a mistake  and deducted an extra 10% for lack of proof 
of ownership when this clearly wasnt justified. This would have then enabled Mr S to 
challenge this and point out that he had provided adequate proof of ownership.  
I also accept that making deductions to take account of age, wear  and tear and loss of value 
isnt an exact  science. But that doesnt mean  that they shouldnt  still be considered carefully.  
Ive seen that Mapfre appears  to have applied its own internal guidance when deciding the 
level of deductions  to apply. And, despite the wording in the policy, it seems that the 
guidance is based mainly on two things:  which category the item falls into - clothing  or 
another valuable  and how old the item is. 
But it seems  to me that consideration shouldnt just be limited  to these factors.  I think  
account should be taken of other things, such as the type of item and how often its likely to 
have been used. And I think thats important, given  that different  items are likely to reduce in 
value at different  rates. So, for instance, a tent of the same age as another  item may well fall 
within the same category  but may not reduce in value at the same rate, simply because it 
isnt used as much or is more hard-wearing. And I think that could be said for some of the 
other items Mr S claimed for, such as the barbecue,  bedding, microwave  and fridge. Mr S 
told us that the majority of these  items  were used  solely for camping trips. So, had it not 
been for the damage caused,  I think its likely  that Mr S and his family would have enjoyed  
the items  for many years to come. 
But I cant see that Mapfre has applied  this kind of consideration to Mr Ss claim. And for that 
reason, I dont think its settlement offer is fair. I think it should now revise it deductions for 
the tent, barbeque, microwave, table top fridge  and bedding to 20%. So, including Mapfres 
revised calculations  for other items such as the training shoes and hoverboard,  it should  now 
settle Mr Ss claim by giving him a further £325.90 (on top of the £415.10 it has already 
Ref: DRN92987853paid). As I think this properly reflects the durability of the items concerned and how often 
theyd been used. I appreciate the policy wording mentions loss of value  as well as wear  and 
tear, but I think these  are really the same thing. And  from what  its said it appears  Mapfre 
thinks the same. 
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Ss concern about  the time it took Mapfre  to settle his claim. I can 
appreciate why Mapfre wanted to know whether the holiday parks  insurer intended to settle  
claims from Mr S or anyone else. But I dont think it was reasonable for Mapfre to expect 
Mr S to await  the outcome of another insurers investigations before it decided to assess 
Mr Ss claim, particularly as theres no evidence to show it chased progress until Mr S got in 
touch. And Mr S says that Mapfres delay meant that he couldnt replace some  of the items 
claimed for until the claim was settled. I have  no reason to doubt Mr Ss account.  
It seems  to me that it would have been  more sensible for Mapfre to assess whether Mr S 
had a valid claim. And, if it thought  he did, settle it. In the event that the other insurer  decided 
to pay out, Mapfre could have recovered its losses directly from the other  insurer. So, I dont 
think the delay  on Mapfres part was reasonable.
And the fact that Mapfre initially made  mistakes  in calculating its settlement figure and didnt 
pick on up on this when  it responded to his complaint, didnt help Mr Ss situation. 
This means  that, overall, it took Mapfre far too long to settle  Mr Ss claim. And  as Ive 
already explained, it didnt  settle  for the right amount. Mr S has been inconvenienced 
because of this, not least  because hes been  unable to replace items  that were  damaged,  so 
he couldnt go on other camping trips hed planned.  So, I think Mapfre should pay 
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered.   
 
Response to my provisional decision
Both Mr S and Mapfre accepted my provisional  decision. 
My findings
Ive again considered all of the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  As neither party has objected to my provisional  decision, I see 
no reason to change  it. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold 
the complaint.  I direct  Mapfre  Asistencia Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
SA to do the following:
Settle Mr Ss claim by giving him an extra £325.90 (on top of the £415.10 it has 
already calculated in settlement of the claim). 
Pay simple interest  of 8% from the date of claim to the date of settlement on any 
amounts not already paid; 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation in respect  of the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9298785