K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained about a series of payday  loans he took out with Apfin  Ltd (trading as 
Cashasap.co.uk). Hes said Cashasap  lent to him irresponsibly and this impacted his 
relationship with his parents whom he had to borrow money from to finally repay  his debts. 
Background
Mr K started borrowing from Cashasap in March  2017. In total, he went on to take a total of 
11 loans up until July 2018. 
I attach my provisional decision of 23 July 2019,  which forms part of this final decision and 
should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended  to 
partially uphold  Mr Ks complaint. I invited both parties  to provide any further comments  they 
may have  had, by 6 August 2019, before I reached  a final decision.
Cashasap responded. In summary, it said:
It didnt accept that 3 or 4 data points  could create a pattern and so it disagrees  that 
loans 2 to 4 should even have been  seen  as a warning sign;
There is no intended purpose for High-cost short-term credit  (HCSTC) and it is up 
to a customer to decide how to use the funds;
My decision not to recreate individual proportionate  checks  for loans 5 to 11 imposes 
a de-facto loan count  cap of 4 loans which doesnt exist in regulatory rules and 
guidance;
The FCA doesnt have  a concept  of persistent  debt when it comes to fixed-sum  credit 
agreements this concept only applies to open-ended credit  agreements;
Stable  borrowing isnt bad. It would have  been  a concern if Mr K kept borrowing ever 
increasing amounts  but as Mr K was borrowing consistent amounts he wasnt in an 
unsustainable debt pattern;
While  I found that the amount of interest Mr K paid was high it was fully transparent  
about the cost of the borrowing from the outset and if Mr K felt it was too high he 
could have gone elsewhere;
My conclusions  on the harm this many loans caused to Mr Ks credit file are counter-
intuitive. And trying  to propel a high-cost  borrower into mainstream credit by 
cleansing their credit file risks oversimplifying a lot of the issues that lenders  and their 
clients face. 
Mr K didnt provide  anything further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN97666652In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; and relevant  codes of practice.  I set all of this out 
in my provisional decision,  which is attached  to this decision, and I would encourage the 
parties to re-read  that decision when considering my conclusions in this one.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, I remain of the view that the three 
overarching questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to consider in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Cashasap, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr K would  be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been  able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
Did Cashasap act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I determine that Cashasap did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Cashasap hasnt challenged  my conclusion that these overarching  questions are relevant to 
me deciding  this complaint. Indeed, Cashasaps response to my provisional  decision 
appears to accept that these are the relevant questions. The content  of Cashasaps 
response suggests it is my findings  on these matters that it disagrees with.
I have reviewed all of the points that Cashasap has made in relation to Mr Ks loans. For 
ease of reference, Ill address Cashasaps points thematically.
Mr Ks borrowing pattern for loans 1 to 4
Cashasap has disagreed with my conclusion that there were warning signs  when loans 1 to 
4 were advanced that Mr Ks borrowing might have been becoming unsustainable. And it 
has also said that it doesnt understand why loan 1 was left off this analysis.
Ive thought about what Cashasap has said. 
Its important to note that I didnt  uphold the complaint about these loans. And I disagree that 
loan 1 wasnt included  in my analysis. My analysis didnt include loan 1 in the context of it 
perhaps being taken to cover the left in Mr Ks finances by him having repaid  a previous 
loan. As loan 1 was Mr Ks first loan with Cashasap there cant  have been any repetition.  
And even  though loan 4 might have  been for the same amount as loan 1, this doesnt  
change the fact that it was for a higher amount  than loan 3 and that there was a much  
shorter gap between loan 3 being  repaid and loan 4 being taken.   
So I remain  satisfied that there were  some warning signs that a pattern might have been 
emerging but I dont  think that it was clear  that Mr Ks lending  had become  unsustainable.
For the sake of completeness and the avoidance  of doubt, Id also like to make it clear that I 
did not state that Cashasap should  never provide more  than four loans to a borrower.  There 
Ref: DRN97666653will be some  instances where  it will have been  perfectly fair and reasonable to have provided 
a borrower with five or more loans. So I dont  agree  with the notion that Ive somehow 
created a de-facto policy limiting a lender to providing no more than four loans to a borrower.
The conclusion that I reached in my provisional  decision and which I repeat in this final 
decision is that given  the particular circumstances  of this case, Cashasap ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  realised that the loans from 5 onwards were unsustainable for Mr K. 
The purpose  of HCSTC
The position  I set out in the second  overarching  question of my provisional  decision (which 
Cashasap hasnt disputed  is appropriate  in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint) is that the products Mr K was given by Cashasap were 
intended for short-term  use only. Cashasap has replied that that there is no mandated  
purpose for HCSTC in CONC.
Its not for me to offer a definitive interpretation  of CONC. My role is to look at the published 
rules, guidance, and statements of good  (and bad) industry practice made by the regulator,  
alongside all other relevant  considerations, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in this case.
Having carefully considered Cashasaps arguments, I continue to believe that my position   
that these products are intended for short-term use only  is entirely  consistent  with CONC 
and other  actions/statements made by the FCA. I say this because:
the FCA has specifically transposed  the most relevant section of the Office of Fair 
Tradings Irresponsible  Lending Guidance (6.25)  regarding the purpose of payday 
loans - into section 6.7.21G  and 6.7.22G  of CONC. These sections  of ILG and CONC 
make several clear statements, including:
oThe purpose of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary  cash  
flow problems experienced  by consumers. They are not appropriate for 
supporting sustained borrowing over longer periods, for which  other products are 
likely to be more suitable.
Cashasap has referred  to a speech  given by the Chief Executive of the FCA as evidence 
of the FCA seeing a range of possible uses of HCSTC, including  smoothing income  
flows to pay for household bills. Ive read the speech referred to in its entirety and dont 
agree that this constitutes the FCA endorsing  repeated  use of HCSTC loans over 
extended periods.  And Cashasap has chosen to focus on this speech  directed to the 
wider high-cost credit sector - rather than the Dear  CEO  letter  it was sent,  in October  
2018, by the Director of Supervision - Retail and Authorisations, which sent out the 
FCAs concerns about repeat  borrowing in the HCSTC  sector  in particular.     
Indeed upon assuming its role as regulator of this market, the FCA introduced  a new rule 
(CONC 6.7.23R) which prohibited lenders from refinancing high-cost, short-term  credit 
on more than two occasions, unless in order to exercise forbearance. I think  this reflects 
the short-term nature  of the product (and arguably reflects the FCAs acceptance  of the 
risks associated  with repeated refinancing  or churning of loans, which had also been 
identified by its predecessor, the OFT).
Ref: DRN97666654the FCA defines the kind of products which Cashasap  lent to Mr K as being high-cost, 
short-term credit (my emphasis). The FCA defines these products as those which are 
due to be repaid,  or substantially  repaid, within a maximum of 12 months.
Persistent debt,  stable borrowing and the cost of Mr Ks loans
Cashasap has appeared to argue that my provisional decision created a policy  regarding  
persistent debt that doesnt exist. This is because the FCA doesnt have a concept of 
persistent debt when  it comes to fixed-sum credit agreements  it only has one in relation  to 
open-ended credit agreements.
The first thing for me to say is that I agree with Cashasap when it says that it provided Mr K 
with fixed-sum credit agreements, rather than open-ended  ones. As this was the case, 
Cashasap had to take reasonable steps to check that Mr K would  be able to repay what he 
was lent on time and without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. So its entirely 
possible that there is no specific policy with regard to persistent debt in relation to fixed-sum 
agreements because the rules as they stand already envisage such  debts being settled 
within the term of the agreement. But that is a matter for the FCA to clarify.  
In this case, by the time Mr K was provided with loan 5 it was clear  that that he wasnt paying 
back what he owed without having  to borrow to meet  repayments.  This was because  Mr K 
was now taking loans  for similar amounts before  his next payday and this was indicative of 
someone who was borrowing to cover the hole in his finances  by him having repaid a 
previous loan. I dont  think that the loan amounts  Mr K was provided with staying  roughly  the 
same changes this.      
Given what Ive said above about  the FCA introducing the cap on rollovers, what  it has said 
about repeat  lending  in its October 2018 Dear CEO letter and whet  the rules  say about the 
need for fixed-sum loan agreements  to be settled by the end of the term without borrowing 
further, I dont think that my findings are inconsistent with the regulators rules.
But, in any event, Im required to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ks case.  
I recognise that the amount lent to Mr K remained relatively stable. But I remain  of the view 
that the overall cost of these loans  was significant  and harmful,  and the interest rates were 
high. As I explained, in my provisional  decision,  over the sixteen-month  period of the entire 
loan chain, Mr K borrowed an average  amount of around £250. For access to this money,  he 
paid £700 in interest, fees and charges. 
Ive seen what Cashasap  has said about  the cost of the loans were clearly set out to Mr K 
and that it was up to him to decide  whether  to proceed.  But my provisional decision didnt 
say that the cost of the borrowing (at least on a loan by loan basis werent  disclosed to       
Mr K). So I think  that Cashasap has somewhat missed the point that I made. 
Mr K being  lent to in this way meant  that he was, in effect, merely  servicing  his debt to 
Cashasap  in other  words, he was paying  interest without making inroads into the 
outstanding capital. And I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Cashasap  to provide 
Mr K with this series of loans over this extended  period when the effect was the same (or 
worse, given the lack of the cost cap) as it providing  a single loan encompassing this period 
Ref: DRN97666655whilst knowing  that itd never provide a single loan on these terms, or refinance a loan this 
many times. 
Cashasaps comments  in relation to Mr Ks credit file
Cashasap says that my findings on Mr Ks credit  file are counter-intuitive as a consumer 
showing they are able to pay surely  indicates  theyll be able to repay  the same  credit at a 
lower interest rate.
The first thing for me to say is that my comments about Mr Ks credit  file were in relation to 
how Cashasap should put things right for him as a result of it unfairly provided him with his 
loans. This wasnt a finding in relation to determining whether  or not Mr Ks complaint should  
be upheld.
Moving on to Cashasaps points regarding amending Mr Ks credit file, my direction in 
relation to Mr Ks credit file isnt an attempt to propel him into mainstream lending. Its about 
putting things  right in a way that ensures Mr K doesnt lose out as a result  of what Cashasap 
did wrong.
My experience of complaints regarding lending  in general has shown me that, whether 
rightly or wrongly, the presence of large  amounts (whether in terms of amount advance or 
number of loans) of HCSTC  on a consumers credit file does impact on their ability  to access 
credit at lower interest rates. Given Cashasap  shouldnt  have provided these loans to Mr K in 
the first place, I dont  think that it would be fair and reasonable for him to be lose out, in this 
way, as a result of what Cashasap did wrong. 
And while Ive thought  about Cashasaps points regarding the wider lending  market as a 
whole, Im required to consider how to put things  right for Mr K given the particular 
circumstances of his case. So I remain of the view that Cashasap  should remove  all 
reference to the loans  from loan 5 from Mr Ks credit  file.
Having carefully considered all of Cashasaps points, I still think that Mr Ks complaint about 
loans 5 to 11 should be upheld. As I think that this is the case, Cashasap should put things 
right in the way set out below.
Fair compensation  What Cashasap needs to do to put things right for Mr K
 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Cashasap to put things right for him in the following 
way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loans 5 to 11; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr K to the date of settlement;
remove all reference to loans  5 to 11 from Mr Ks credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashasap to take off tax from this interest.  Cashasap  
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN97666656My final decision
For the reasons  above and those contained  in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. Apfin Ltd (trading as Cashasap.co.uk) should pay compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97666657COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K has complained about a series of payday  loans he took out with Apfin  LTD (trading as 
Cashasap.co.uk). Hes said Cashasap  lent to him irresponsibly and this impacted his 
relationship with his parents whom he had to borrow money from to finally repay  his debts. 
background
Mr K started borrowing from Cashasap in March  2017. In total, he went on to take a total of 
11 loans up until July 2018. 
When it looked at Mr Ks complaint, Cashasap didnt agree that it provided Mr Ks loans 
irresponsibly. 
Cashasap said that the checks it carried out, amongst other things, included:
asking Mr K to provide  details of his income;
asking Mr K to provide  a breakdown of his monthly expenditure;
a credit check.
Cashasap said that it considered all of this information before approving Mr Ks loans. And 
that it didnt think  it had done  anything  wrong  on any occasion.  So Cashasap  didnt uphold 
Mr Ks complaint.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ks complaint.  For the sake  of clarity,  Ive set out the 
loan history in a table  at the end of this provisional decision. Our adjudicator thought that 
Cashasap hadnt  done anything wrong in relation to Mr Ks first three loans. But he also 
thought that Cashasap shouldnt have provided  loans four to eleven as it ought to have 
realised that these loans were unsustainable for Mr K. Cashasap disagreed. As a result,  the 
complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
In reaching this provisional decision,  I have taken  into account the relevant law and 
regulations; relevant regulators  rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice;  
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the time. I 
think that it would be useful for me to start by setting  all of this out.
  
Cashasap gave Mr K his loans while it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). And this meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations at the time each 
loan was provided.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
Ref: DRN97666658The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Cashasap. CONC 5 
sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible  lending.  And CONC 6 sets out a firms 
obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the rules  set out in CONC 5 and 
CONC 6 and the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) published by the former regulator  
of Consumer Credit providers the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in March  2010. As is evident 
from the following  extracts,  the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN97666659CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
CONC 6.7 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to its post contract business practices. 
CONC 6.7.21G, CONC 6.7.22G and CONC 6.7.23R  contained  specific obligations for 
high- cost short-term credit providers  like Cashasap.
CONC 6.7.21G says:
A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit where to do so is unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful.
Ref: DRN976666510[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.22G says:
A firm should not allow a customer to enter  into consecutive agreements  with the firm for 
high-cost short-term credit if the cumulative effect  of the agreements  would be that the total 
amount payable by the customer is unsustainable.
[Note: paragraph 6.25 (box) of ILG]
Section 6.25 of the ILG is concerned with what the OFT referred to as deceptive and/or 
unfair practices.
CONC 6.7.23R (which applied from 1 July 2014) says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit  (other  than by exercising forbearance) 
on more than two occasions.
CONC 6.7.17R defines refinancing and says:
(1)In CONC 6.7.111 R to CONC 6.7.23  R refinance means  to extend, or purport to 
extend, the period over which one or more repayment is to be made  by a customer  
whether by:
(a)agreeing with the customer to replace, vary or supplement an existing 
regulated credit  agreement;
(b)exercising  a contractual  power  contained in an existing regulated credit 
agreement; or
(c)other means, for example, granting an indulgence or waiver to the customer.
(2)Exercise forbearance means  to refinance a regulated credit  agreement where the 
result is that no interest accrues at any time in relation  to that agreement or any 
which replaces, varies or supplements it from the date of the refinancing and either:
(a)there is no charge  in connection with the refinancing; or
(b)the only additional charge is a reasonable estimate of the actual and 
necessary cost of the additional  administration required in connection with the 
refinancing.
(3)The term refinance  within  paragraph (1) does not include where  under a regulated  
credit agreement  repayable in instalments  a customer  requests a change  in the 
regular payment date and as a result there is no charge or additional interest in 
connection with the change.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mr Ks loans were given to him after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into 
force on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine 
Ref: DRN976666511that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair  to the debtor. Section 140A 
says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
Ref: DRN976666512(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
the law
Ive also taken account of the Consumer Credit Act (including the provisions  I havent  set out 
above), and other relevant  legislation, including the law relating  to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract;  as well as the law relating to causation and remoteness.
my provisional findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Cashasap, for each loan, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr K would  be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been  able to do so?
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern 
of lending increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise 
harmful?
Did Cashasap act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I determine that Cashasap did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Did Cashasap, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay these loans  in a sustainable  way?
A lender will determine its own risk appetite  when  providing short-term  loans. In other words, 
itll decide how much  risk  in relation  to not getting its money back  it is prepared to accept 
when deciding to lend to a consumer.  But the rules  throughout the time Mr K was 
borrowing from Cashasap  also require a lender to carry out a reasonable assessment of 
Ref: DRN976666513whether the borrower can afford to meet the repayment (or repayments) in a sustainable 
manner.
This is commonly  referred to or called an affordability assessment or affordability check. 
And a lender  is required to carry out any such affordability assessment in addition to any 
creditworthiness assessment to assess the level of its risk. Affordability checks  should be 
both borrower-focused  and proportionate. Its whether Cashasap fulfilled this obligation to  
Mr K that is what Im concerned about  and is the first key question  I have to determine in 
order to decide  this case.
What constitutes a proportionate affordability  check will be dependent upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances of the borrower  (such  as 
their financial  history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate  check could  look different  for different  loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount  from a lower level of income)
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that ongoing use of 
these loans may signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Cashasap says the checks it carried out before giving Mr K his loans included,  Mr K 
declaring that:
he had a monthly income of £1,500 at the time of loan one, which  rose to £1,900  at 
the time of loan eight;
he had monthly housing costs of between £75 and £100;
he had other monthly expenditure of between £310 and £465;
he had disposable  income of in excess of £1,000 at the time of each application;
Cashasap also says that it carried credit checks and these showed that Mr K had no County 
Court Judgements (CCJ) or insolvency arrangements recorded against  him.
Ive carefully thought  about what Cashasap has said
Ref: DRN976666514I want to start by saying  that Cashasaps submissions appear  to suggest that it carried out 
the same  checks for all of Mr Ks applications. And while the checks carried  out mightve  
been reasonable and proportionate for loans 1-4, I dont think  that this is the case  for loans 
5-11. And I think that it would have been  fair and reasonable for Cashasap to have done 
more.
I say this because  I think  that Cashasap ought to have been  alert to the possibility that Mr K 
mightve been struggling to repay  his borrowing from disposable income  especially as this 
was the fourth time he was approaching for further borrowing despite supposedly having in 
excess of £1,000 a month available in disposable income. So I think that its fair and 
reasonable to expect  Cashasap to have undertaken further checks to verify  the information  
provided to make sure that its lending was sustainable for Mr K. 
Given the number  of loans Cashasap provided Mr K with over what  was an extended and 
prolonged period of time,  I think that it wouldve been fair, reasonable and proportionate for 
Cashasap to have  taken steps  to verify  Mr Ks actual  financial position. It couldve done this 
by asking for evidence  and information about  his outgoings. Or it might  have  asked Mr K to 
provide proof that his income  was what hed declared. But, at the very least, what it needed  
to do was get to the crux of why it was Mr K kept needing to borrow  money  from it.
Theres no evidence that Cashasap did any of this  or any other additional assessment of 
affordability  from loans 5 to 11. So I dont think Cashasap completed  reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks on loans 5 to 11.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks on loans 5 to 11 have indicated to Cashasap  
that Mr K would have  been unable to sustainably repay  the loan(s)?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. In some  circumstances,  it would be appropriate to attempt to reconstruct 
proportionate checks to see what they would  more likely than not have shown Cashasap 
about the proposed lending. 
Id usually attempt  to do this using the evidence and information Mr K has provided us with 
about his financial  circumstances  at the time he applied for these loans. But I havent  
recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 11. And I dont think  that 
it is necessary for me to do this, in this case. 
Ill explain  the reason why I think  recreating individual,  proportionate  checks for loans 5 to 
11, isnt necessary in this case in the section below.
Thinking about  the short-term purpose  of the loans  provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some  
other way?
In addition to assessing the affordability  of each individual loan provided to Mr K by 
Cashasap, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending. 
Bearing in mind the short-term purpose  of this type of credit and the relevant rules,  guidance 
and good industry  practice at the time (as summarised in the earlier  part of this decision), it 
seems to me that there may come a point at which a responsible lender would reasonably 
question whether continuing  to offer further short-term loans to a customer who appears to 
be persistently reliant upon them was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Ref: DRN976666515Ive carefully considered  whether that point was reached in this case.
I think that it would be useful for me to start by setting out some  examples of the kind of 
indicators that I think are particularly important when deciding  this matter. Some examples of 
the kind of indicators would include:
the number  of times that Cashasap had lent to Mr K in total
the time period over which it had provided those loans
the amounts  that Cashasap was lending to Mr K, including  any general trends
the time between Mr K repaying  one loan and Cashasap providing  the next
Even though  I havent upheld the complaint  about loans 1 to 4, I still think it would  be helpful 
for me to look at the pattern of lending  during  this time in order to inform my decision on 
whether and when  there were indications that Mr Ks loans had become (or were becoming 
unsustainable).
Mr K was provided with four loans  in the space  of seven months. Loan 4 was for more  than 
the amounts of loans 2 and 3 and it was taken only 14 days  after loan three had been  
repaid. So this also suggests Mr K may have  been borrowing to cover  the hole making his 
repayment left in his finances.  That said, Im mindful that Mr K had a 36 day gap between 
settling loan one and taking loan two. And then there was an even longer gap of 43 days  
between loan two being settled and loan three  being  taken.       
So even though I think that there were some  warning  signs that Cashasap ought to have 
been alert to during the course of loans  1 to 4 - the shortening gaps between repayment  of a 
previous loan and a new one being taken and loan 4 being for more  than loans two and 
three - I dont think I can say that the pattern  of lending had, in itself,  become demonstrably  
unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for 
themselves.
Looking beyond loan 4, though, I think theres a clear mismatch between the intended 
purpose of this type of credit and the way in which Cashasap allowed it to be used. The 
loans Cashasap provided Mr K with are meant  to be a short-term solution  to temporary cash 
flow problems as set out in the rules  and guidance. Yet Cashasap  persistently and 
repeatedly provided  consecutive loans to Mr K over an extended period of time  a period 
approaching 18 months.
From this perspective,  having carefully  considered everything,  I think  this chain  of lending 
was unsustainable  and harmful from loan 5. For this reason, I dont think  that theres any 
need for me to recreate individual,  proportionate  affordability checks for loans 5 to 11.
To explain, Ive already said that there  was an emerging pattern, between loans 1 and 4, of 
Mr K taking out new loans  not too long after repaying previous ones and that the gaps 
between repayment  and new lending were getting shorter. And I think that, by loan 5 
Cashasap ought  fairly  and reasonably to have regarded that pattern as established. In my 
view, Mr K was never able to recover and get himself on an even financial keel from, at 
least, this point onwards
While Cashasap may have been received payments from Mr K after this, he wasnt  truly 
settling his loans  over the life of the credit agreements. Instead, what Mr K was doing was 
Ref: DRN976666516borrowing further funds  from Cashasap in order to cover the gap in his finances left by the 
repayment of the previous loan. 
After loan 5, the amounts Mr K borrowed  remained stubbornly persistent. And the amount 
Cashasap continued  to lend wasnt getting Mr K out of this persistent  debt.
Looking at these  loans I can see that:
all of them were for £300 or more  so all of them were  for significantly more than 
what Mr K borrowed for loan one;
Mr K never made it to another payday  before having to borrow  again  in fact 
there were only two occasions were Mr K was able to last more  than a week 
before making  a further application
Over the sixteen-month  period of the entire loan chain, Mr K borrowed an average  amount of 
around £250. For access to this money,  he paid £700 in interest, fees and charges.
I think, during  this period,  that Mr K was, in effect, merely servicing his debt to Cashasap  in 
other words, he was paying interest without making  inroads into the outstanding capital. And 
although the amounts fluctuated slightly  the amount being lent remained stubbornly  
persistent. This shouldve  shown Cashasap that these  loans  were  unsustainable, as Mr K 
proved unable to clear  his indebtedness within a reasonable period of time.
Yet Cashasap continued to provide credit repeatedly to Mr K over this chain of lending.  In 
these circumstances,  I cant  see how it was fair and reasonable for Cashasap to have given   
Mr K all of these  loans in the way that it did. The effect of allowing  Mr K to take such a long 
sequence of loans was that he found himself paying  high interest charges over an extended 
period for loans  that were  only intended  to be for short-term use.
Ive seen Cashasaps  reference to the Lender  A and Lender  B decisions published on our 
website. It has said that the ombudsmen in those cases upheld the complaint at a different  
and later  point in the lending history. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Cashasap has said.
I want to start by saying  that Im completely au fait with the decisions Cashasap has referred 
to. However, Cashasap ought  to be aware  that we consider each  case individually and on its 
own merits. That said, I think that it would  be useful for me to point out that the borrower in 
the Lender A decision was provided with loans that had weekly  terms. So the timespan  
between the first loan and the loan the complaint was upheld from, was actually shorter  than 
the timespan in this case. And in Lender  B, the borrower didnt complain to us about the first 
few loans. So once  again I dont think that the time that had passed between the first loan 
being taken and the loan that doesnt  provide  a useful comparison here. 
And as the facts  in the respective cases appear to differ materially from those  in this case, I 
dont think that my findings her are inconsistent with the published cases  Cashasap has 
referred to.     
So having  carefully considered Cashasaps arguments, given all of its obligations, the short-
term purpose of this kind of high-cost short-term credit, and what  I think is fair and 
Ref: DRN976666517reasonable taking into account  the circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section,  
I think that Cashasap  acted unfairly in providing Mr K with loans 5 to 11.
Did Mr K lose out as a result of Cashasaps shortcomings in relation to loans 5 to 11?
I also think that Mr K suffered adverse consequences as a result of Cashasap  unfairly giving  
him loans  5 to 11. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness to Cashasap  by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit   which the rules and guidance made  clear  was only 
intended for short-term  use  over an extended period of time.
These loans were very expensive. For regular and prolonged  access to this money,  Mr K 
paid many multiples in interest, fees and charges. And I think that the overall cost of these 
loans unfairly prolonged Mr Ks adverse financial position.
Secondly, the sheer number of loans involved (even  those successfully repaid by 
refinancing) is likely  to have had implications for Mr Ks ability  to access mainstream credit.  
The greater the presence of short-term  loans on Mr Ks credit  file the less likely Mr K was 
able to rehabilitate  his finances and regain access to mainstream credit.
In my view, Cashasap giving Mr K such a large  number of loans  (which  it shouldnt have 
done) unfairly placed him in a position  where he was effectively trapped into taking very 
expensive high-cost loans over an extended period as no-one  else would lend to him. He 
kept turning to Cashasap (and other similar providers) because he no longer had access to 
more sustainable  forms of credit.
Did Cashasap act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Cashasap acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr K in some 
other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on pages 
6 and 7 of this provisional decision, Im inclined to say that Mr K lost out because  Cashasap 
unfairly gave him loans  5 to 11, which it ought to have realised were unsustainable  and 
harmful for him. And this means  that Im intending to say that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Cashasap to put things right.
fair compensation  what  Cashasap  needs  to do to put things right  for Mr K
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Cashasap putting Mr K 
in the position hed now be in if he hadnt  been  given the loans Im upholding.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr K 
was given the loans in question and hes used the funds   albeit in reality  what hes 
effectively done  is repaid  previous loans  with the funds. So, in these circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr K back in the position  
he would  be in if he hadnt been  given  these loans in the first place.
Ref: DRN976666518As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair, 
reasonable and proportionate way bearing  in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id 
like to explain the reasons why I think  that it would be fair and reasonable for Cashasap to 
put things right in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr K shouldnt have been given
As Ive explained throughout  this provisional decision, Cashasap  continually lending to Mr K 
left him in a position where  he wasnt able to properly settle his debt.  This was because Mr K 
kept having to find additional  funds (I suspect  through borrowing elsewhere) to pay the 
(increasing) interest and charges on his Cashasap loans. And then he had to borrow again 
from Cashasap to either repay others  or cover the hole in his finances and he incurred more  
interest and charges when he did this. So to start with, I think that Cashasap should refund 
the interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 5 to 11.
Mr K also lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest and charges, I now think that 
Cashasap needs  to refund to him. As Mr K lost the use of these  funds, I think  that he should 
be compensated for this. We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where a 
consumer hasnt had the use of funds  because its actions resulted  in something having gone  
wrong. Ive seen no reason to depart from our usual  approach here and I think  awarding 8% 
per year simple interest, on the interest  and charges that were  paid, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
So Cashasap should pay Mr K 8% per year simple interest on the interest and charges he 
paid from the date those charges were paid to the date it settles  Mr Ks complaint.
Mr Ks credit  file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mr Ks complaint about  loans 5 to 11 because I think the overall pattern of 
lending increased  Mr Ks indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some  
other way. I explained that there  were  two main adverse  consequences  of Cashasap having  
given Mr K so many  loans. Firstly it caused him to pay an excessive amount of interest and 
charges. And Ive already  explained how Mr K should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the sheer number of loans involved is likely to have had implications for 
Mr Ks ability  to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of short-term loans on 
Mr Ks credit  file the less likely  Mr K was able to rehabilitate his finances and regain access  
to mainstream credit.  And I think my direction in relation to Mr Ks credit  file needs to reflect  
this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Ks credit  history 
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans on Mr Ks credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. 
Ref: DRN976666519I think that this many  short term loans appearing on Mr Ks credit file is likely  to continue 
adversely affecting  Mr K going forwards. In these  circumstances, Im intending to say that it 
is fair and reasonable for Cashasap to remove all reference to loans 5 to 11 from Mr Ks 
credit file, as the number  of loans in itself is adverse  information.
All of this means  that Im intending to say that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Cashasap to put things right for him in the following 
way:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loans 5 to 11; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mr K to the date of settlement;
remove all reference to loans  5 to 11 from Mr Ks credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashasap to take off tax from this interest.  Cashasap  
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mr Ks complaint and tell Apfin  LTD 
(trading as Cashasap.co.uk) to pay compensation as set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 6 August 2019 change my mind, thats what 
Ill tell Cashasap to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9766665