K821x#15complaint
Mr Z complains that Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr Z had an insurance policy that included  cover for his central  heating. The policy  was in 
the name of an energy company. Great Lakes was the insurer  responsible  for dealing  with 
claims. Where I refer to the insurer or Great Lakes, I include engineers, call-handlers  and 
others for whose actions  I hold Great Lakes responsible.
On 7 November  2018 Mr Zs boiler wasnt producing hot water or central heating. In the late 
evening he called the insurer for help.  It arranged a visit the next day. Mr Z paid an excess of 
£50.00. But the insurer said that it wouldnt cover the repair.  It left Mr Z to engage his own 
engineer. It said it would refund the £50.00 and later did so.
Mr Z was without  central heating and hot water for a couple  of days before  his engineer fixed 
the problem. His engineer  invoiced  him and Mr Z sent the insurer the invoice.  It reimbursed 
him, less the £50.00 excess.  Mr Z complained that the insurer  should reimburse the excess  
and pay him compensation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
there was no basis on which to ask the insurer to refund the £50.00 that was deducted from 
the amount that it paid. He found no evidence that there were  any unreasonable delays on 
the part of the insurer - and for this reason he couldnt recommend that it paid compensation.
The investigator said that it is reasonable to reach a certain conclusion  regarding the 
breakdown of a relatively new boiler  that with hindsight might not be correct.  The insurer had 
initially told Mr Z that the diagnosed problem wasnt covered. Nevertheless the investigator 
was satisfied that Mr Zs engineer quickly resolved the problem and that the insurer agreed 
to pay the costs, including the cost of the corrosion inhibitor that wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr Z 
and to Great Lakes  on 8 October  2019.  I summarise my findings:
 
I found the insurer responsible for misdiagnosing a failed pump instead of a failed 
three-port valve.
I didnt think the insurer wouldve  fixed the problem any more  quickly that Mr Zs 
engineer did. In the meantime Mr Z wouldve had to pay for electrical  heating.
He wouldve also had to pay for any new rust inhibitor. And, of course, Mr Z wouldve 
had to pay the excess of £50.00 because thats what the policy said.
Therefore I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer  to compensate  Mr Z 
for delay  or heating  costs or to reimburse  the excess.
Ref: DRN90626532But he wouldnt have had to spend  time finding his own engineer.  And he wouldnt 
have had to have difficult conversations with the insurer.
So  whilst I gave the insurer credit for reimbursing Mr Zs engineers invoice including  
inhibitor  I was minded  to find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer  to pay Mr Z 
£100.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr Z or from Great Lakes, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct Great Lakes 
Reinsurance (UK) SE to pay Mr Z £100.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr Z agrees with the provisional decision.
Great Lakes disagrees  with the provisional decision.  It says,  in summary, that:
Mr Zs claim  was declined due to the presence of sludge after its engineer attended  and 
ran diagnostics.  
After receiving the report from the customers engineer, the insurer gave the customer  
the benefit of the doubt and agreed to pay the customers claim. However,  the insurer 
hasnt established  definitely whether or not the parts  his engineer  replaced were  
damaged by sludge. 
The insurer agreed to cover the cost of items that are not covered (inhibitors) in an 
attempt to resolve the complaint with the customer, as his engineer has advised he used 
different parts. These components are still related  to the plumbing  and circulation  
sections of the boiler.
Inhibitor is used to slow the chemical  reaction that leads to sludge  building within the 
pipe work. The fact that this has been  put into Mr Zs system points towards  the fact that 
there was a presence of sludge in his heating system. 
The excess is a term and condition of his policy. It was deducted at the settlement of 
the claim.
Its engineer was professional and held the relevant Gas Safe qualifications.
The customers invoice doesnt  contain any details regarding  the engineer he used,  and 
is written on a bit of paper, not even Gas Safe number etc. There is no evidence of the 
engineer holding the relevant accreditations.
The customer hasnt  provided an honest  account  of the events.
There was a presence of sludge  within the heating system. The diagnosis of the pump 
was related to poor performance  and lack of circulation  within the system.
A three-port valve works in the system by flicking the flow of heated water between hot 
water or heating,  whatever  is requested  by the user. This part can become clogged with 
sludge which stops it from operating correctly, meaning it can be stuck one way or the 
other or failing completely, This part is a crucial to the circulation of the heated water 
within the system,  as is the pump.
Ref: DRN90626533There was a two- day time frame between the insurer declining the claim and the 
customers repair. 
The insurer acted  fairly in these circumstances.  Our investigation hasnt provided a fair 
and reasonable  response to the customers complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excluded (among other things) the following:
the excess  shown in your certificate
...
any work to repair  damage caused by rust, sludge, hard water scale, corrosive  water 
or water with a high chemical content
...
the cost of refilling your system with any additives (e.g. corrosion inhibitors)

the repair or replacement  of water circulating pumps that do not have a valve  either side 
of the pump. This means that they cannot  be removed without draining the system...
From that, I find that the policy excluded replacement of, for example, a pump or valve 
damaged by sludge. But the insurer would have to show  not only the presence of sludge  but 
also that it caused the damage.
The insurer  has said the excess  was £50.00  and Mr Z hasnt disagreed.  So I find it likely 
thats what the certificate of insurance  said.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Zs statement that within the last couple of years hed had a 
new boiler and a power flush  of his central heating system to remove sludge and scale.
After Mr Z called for help,  the insurer arranged a visit the next day. It collected a £50.00  
excess. From the insurers file, I see that the engineer said Mr Z needed  a new pump. 
But  in its final response  the insurer said the following:
I agree that the diagnosis  from [the engineer] appears to be wrong as your 
engineer has managed  to rectify  the fault and have provided a different diagnosis .
I think that statement  was based on the invoice from Mr Zs engineer saying that hed replaced 
a completely different component - a three-port valve. I still havent seen that invoice. But  
from the insurers file  I think it was for £186.50 including  a three-port valve and inhibitor.
I find the insurer responsible for misdiagnosing  a failed  pump  instead  of a failed three-port 
valve. And, in my view,  that misdiagnosis  undermines the insurers  engineers statements 
that sludge or scale in the system had caused the damage.
I dont think he had removed the pump to inspect it for sludge. And Ive found that the 
system had recently  been flushed.  So theres  not enough evidence of the presence of sludge 
in the system  let alone evidence that it caused  damage.
Ref: DRN90626534I dont think the pump had failed at all. So its irrelevant whether the pump  had a valve  either 
side of it to allow its isolation without  draining down the system.
Ive thought about what position Mr Z shouldve been in if the insurer  had correctly 
diagnosed a faulty three-port valve.
I think it likely the insurer wouldve had to order that part and make another  visit. So I dont 
think the insurer wouldve  fixed  the problem any more quickly  that Mr Zs engineer  did. In the 
meantime Mr Z wouldve had to pay for electrical heating.
He wouldve also had to pay for any new rust inhibitor. And, of course, Mr Z wouldve had to 
pay the excess of £50.00  because thats what the policy said.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer to compensate  Mr Z for delay 
or heating  costs or to reimburse the excess.
But he wouldnt have had to spend  time finding his own engineer.  And he wouldnt have had 
to have difficult conversations  with the insurer.
So  whilst I give the insurer credit  for reimbursing  Mr Zs engineers  invoice including  
inhibitor  Im minded  to find it fair and reasonable to direct  the insurer  to pay Mr Z £100.00 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct  Great  Lakes  Reinsurance (UK) SE to pay Mr Z £100.00 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062653