K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that the charges shes incurred on her account  with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) over the past six years  have been unfair,  causing  her financial difficulties 
which impacted upon  her health and her ability to work. She would like the charges 
refunding and to be paid interest.
background
Miss T had an account with Barclays. She was incurring monthly fees in relation to direct  
debit, unauthorised overdrafts and other transaction fees. She states how she was in a cycle  
of debt, constantly in an overdraft position  and this affected her adversely.
Barclays accepted  that they had applied charges to Miss Ts account but said they had done 
so in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the account. They didnt think they had 
been unfair. They acknowledged Miss T had informed them of her financial  difficulties  but 
had only done  so in April 2019. And they said they had then tried to help her by referring  her 
to their Financial Assistance Team and to the free debt charities, Debt Line and Step 
Change.
Miss T was unhappy with Barclays  response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think Barclays had done anything  wrong.  As Miss T didnt agree, 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wont  repeat the investigators 
background summary because it covers the issues and I want  to avoid repetition.  So, if Ive 
not mentioned  something its not because  Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  the 
Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Miss T. My aim is to ensure that a 
fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved. I do not perform the role of the industry 
regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for financial businesses, punish them, 
or direct that they change their processes.  That falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  
Authority. Equally we are not a court service.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
Miss T feels the charges on her account are unfair and I do appreciate that they are a lot of 
money. However, in November 2009 the Supreme  Court issued a ruling which said that 
charges cant generally be challenged for unfairness  only because  a customer thinks they 
are too high, or unfair.  This means  banks dont have to refund charges and interest  if they 
have been applied in line with the terms and conditions the customer agreed to. And here 
they have been. So Im afraid that I dont agree that Barclays has been  unfair.
Ref: DRN90845332Ive thought about the financial difficulties Miss T faced. The evidence shows  that she didnt 
tell Barclays of this until April 2019.  When a bank knows their customer  is in financial 
difficulties they are obliged to treat that customer sympathetically and fairly. The Lending 
Code sets out some things banks can do when a customer is in financial difficulty and that 
includes suspending  charges on the account. But they dont have to do that - what they have  
to do is deal positively  and sympathetically with a customer if it knows  they are in financial 
difficulty and it can do a range of things, depending on the customers circumstances. The 
charges Barclays applied began in 2013, and this is well before  they knew  of Miss Ts 
difficulties. So I cant say that for the period leading up to that point, that Barclays did 
anything wrong, since  they didnt know of her circumstances.
I know our investigator initially thought Barclays  should refund those charges they applied 
after they were made aware of Miss Ts financial difficulties, but I can see she later changed  
her mind. Ive thought  about this carefully. It seems to me that the issue  is whether Barclays 
treated Miss T unfairly once they were made aware of her financial  difficulties.  At that point 
Barclays suggested that Miss T contact their Financial Assistance Team and also Debt  Line 
and Step Change and they provided her with the telephone  numbers. They also sent letters 
to her which again pointed her to organisations which could help. They  were  trying to help.
Miss T did not take up these suggestions, and it seems the reason was that she had done  so 
previously but felt it had not helped her. But if Miss T had made  contact they may well have 
helped her this time. Barclays could  have considered stopping  the charges, but that would 
have required Miss Ts consent. Without  her giving consent Barclays  could  not unilaterally 
stop the charges since it would have adversely affected Miss Ts credit file which  she may 
not have wanted. As Miss T never  got in touch with Barclays I dont think  they could have 
done any more  until she did and so I cant say they have acted unfairly. I am sorry to hear of 
Miss Ts poor health and accept that it would have been difficult  for her to contact  Barclays  
because of this, but as Barclays werent  aware of that I cant  say it has done anything wrong.
I know Miss T will be disappointed  with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084533