K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he wasnt told that he was entering into a credit agreement with Virgin  
Media Mobile Finance Limited when he upgraded his mobile phone or that there was a 
charge for the handset. Hes being helped with his complaint by his wife.
background
Mr S upgraded his mobile phone in March 2016.  Virgin Media Mobile  Finance says that he 
took out a freestyle contract, which incorporates a handset  under a fixed  sum loan 
agreement (which Mr S signed electronically) and a separate SIM contract.  But Mr S says 
that he wasnt told that there was a charge for the handset and that he didnt sign a loan 
agreement. He complained to Virgin Media Mobile Finance in August 2018  about the 
charges for the handset  and about some  usage  issues. He wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service about  the charges for the handset.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Mr S 
had electronically  signed a loan agreement in March 2016 which provided details of the 
phone and its cost and that Virgin Media  Mobile Finance sent Mr S confirmation that his 
direct debit and loan agreement had been  set up. It had also sent him arrears letters when 
he missed his payments  and its contact notes show that when he paid for his airtime in May 
2016 he said that he would pay for the loan for his phone the next time  which  the 
adjudicator said suggests that he was aware  that he had to make  payments for the phone.
Mr Ss wife  on his behalf  - has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She has responded in detail and says,  in summary,  that:
she was with Mr S when he upgraded his phone  and he wasnt told that there was a 
charge for the handset  and he didnt sign a loan agreement;
a copy of his signature has been  added to the loan agreement; 
he has no recollection of receiving a direct  debit mandate and didnt check his bank 
statement;
he didnt receive  a copy of the signed  loan agreement or the direct debit mandate;
Mr S moved in August 2017 and his post was forwarded  but he didnt receive the 
letters that Virgin Media Mobile Finance  says that it sent to him; and
Virgin Media Mobile Finance should  provide a copy of the recording of the call in 
which it says that Mr S would pay for the handset next month  and he wouldve 
meant that hed make  his normal payment the next month.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S received a new handset when he upgraded his phone  in March 2016.  He says that he 
wasnt told that there was a charge  for the handset  and didnt sign a loan agreement. And 
his wife  who says she was with Mr S when he upgraded his phone - has agreed with what 
Mr S has said.
Virgin Media Mobile Finance has provided a copy of the loan agreement with Mr Ss 
signature on it. But I agree with Mr Ss wife that it does  initially look as though the signature  
might have been copied onto the agreement. But Virgin Media Mobile Finance has provided 
a copy of the loan agreement  which shows that the signature was added  on the day that 
Ref: DRN95041372Mr S was upgrading  his phone. And I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S did sign 
the loan agreement. And the loan agreement said that the cost of the handset was £312  
which Mr S would pay by 24 monthly  payments of £13.
It has also provided an extract  from its contact  notes which says that Mr S made a payment 
for his airtime  tariff in May 2016  and that he said that he would  pay for his phone next time. 
But it hasnt  provided  a copy of that call which was made nearly two years  ago. It says that it 
sent a direct debit confirmation letter showing his payment schedule to Mr S at the account  
address that he initially registered with it when he set up his agreement   and that letters  
were sent to Mr S in April, May and July 2016  and arrears letters  were  sent to him in 
November 2016,  May 2017 and November 2017  and May 2018.
Mr Ss wife says that Mr S didnt receive  those letters and that he moved in August 2017  but 
that his post was forwarded. I consider it to be more likely than not that the letters were sent 
to Mr S by Virgin Media Mobile Finance  even if they werent  received by him.
Theres no clear evidence  to show what was agreed by Mr S and Virgin  Media Mobile 
Finance when he upgraded his phone in March 2016. But the cost of the handset was £312 
and I consider it to be more likely  than not that Mr S wouldve been told that there was a 
charge for the handset. And I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S did say that he 
would make a payment  for the handset the next month when he spoke to Virgin Media  
Mobile Finance  in May 2016. I also consider it to be more likely  than not that Virgin  Media 
Mobile Finance  did send  letters to Mr S about his contract. So I consider it to be more likely 
than not that Mr S knew  or ought  to have  known - that there was a charge for the handset.  
Hes had use of the handset that was provided  to him  and I consider  it to be fair and 
reasonable that he should pay for that handset. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require Virgin Media Mobile Finance to write-off  the charge 
for the handset  or to take any other  action in response to Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9504137