K821x#15Complaint
Ms P complains  that Ferratum UK Ltd lent money to her that she couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information, Ferratum provided Ms P with eight  loans between  November 2017 
and May 2018.
Loan Date Repaid Amount Instalments
1 13/11/2017 30/11/2017 £300.00 1
2 30/11/2017 29/12/2017 £100.00 1
3 02/01/2018 31/01/2018 £100.00 1
4 03/02/2018 28/02/2018 £200.00 1
5 02/03/2018 29/03/2018 £200.00 1
6 10/04/2018 30/04/2018 £200.00 1
7 30/04/2018 31/05/2018 £300.00 1
8 31/05/2018 Outstanding £300.00 1
Ms P says that she took out consecutive loans with Ferratum as well as with other lenders. 
She says that she was struggling to pay her living costs at the time because  of the cost of 
her debts and that the fees and charges  on the loans werent properly explained.
Ferratum says that before loans are provided all applications are credit  checked and subject 
to its lending criteria.  It offered  to waive the interest  and charges on the outstanding loan and 
use previous interest paid to reduce the outstanding balance.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had seen enough  to say that the first three loans shouldnt 
have been provided. However she thought that by loan four Ms P was showing signs that 
she was struggling  to repay some of her of previous loans.  She noted that each time a loan 
was repaid a new one was taken out within  a few days. By loan seven, our adjudicator  
thought that Ms Ps overall pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that loans four to eight should have been provided.
Ferratum agreed to our adjudicators recommendation of refunding all interest and charges 
on loans four to eight.  It noted there was still an outstanding balance  on loan eight which  
would be reduced  by the refund. It said there wasnt any adverse information recorded  about 
loans one to seven as these were  repaid on time.  It didnt think  that it should  remove  loans 
seven and eight  from Ms Ps credit file. 
Ms P didnt accept Ferratums offer and so this case has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN97057302Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Ferratum  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Ms P could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Before the loans were  provided, information  about  Ms Ps income  was gathered  and credit 
checks were carried  out. Our adjudicator said that she hadnt seen enough evidence to say 
that loans one to three shouldnt have been provided. 
I have considered the repayment amount due for loan one against  Ms Ps monthly  income 
and while  I think based on this it would have bene reasonable to carry out further checks to 
ensure the loan was sustainably affordable, based  on the evidence I have seen I do not 
have enough to say that this loan shouldnt have  been provided.
The first loan was repaid  on time and a second loan taken out on the same day. This was for 
a smaller amount and again, based on the information I have  seen, I do not find that I can 
say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Ref: DRN97057303The second  loan was repaid on time and the third taken out a few days later.  The third loan 
was for the same amount  as the second. Again I do not find that I have  enough evidence  at 
this stage to say the loan shouldnt have been provided.
By loan four Ms P had taken out four loans in less than three months and given this I think 
Ferratum should  have been concerned that Ms P was possibly taking out new loans  to cover 
the cost of repaying previous debt.  Ferratum agreed to refund the interest and charges 
(along with interest) on loans four to eight  and I find this reasonable.
Ferratum has said that it will offset  the refund required on the loan against the outstanding 
capital balance on loan eight. Again I find this reasonable.
The outstanding issue relates to the actions regarding Ms Ps credit  file. Our adjudicator said 
that any adverse  information regarding loans four to six should be removed from Ms Ps 
credit file along with removing  loans  seven and eight entirely. Ferratum said that there was 
no adverse information  regarding  loans  one to seven and didnt agree to the removal  of 
loans seven and eight.
I note the comments made  by Ferratum about accurate information being recorded.  I also 
note the comments  that there is no adverse information recorded  in regard to the loans one 
to seven. However, by loan seven, I think that the number of loans taken out means that any 
information recorded about this and the subsequent loan is adverse. Therefore I agree with 
our adjudicators recommendation that loans even and eight should be removed entirely 
from Ms Ps credit file. 
Ms P also said that the fees and charges on the loans were  not explained to her. I have 
looked at the loan agreements and these clearly set out the amount that is being  borrowed, 
the rate of interest,  and how much will need to be repaid. Therefore I do not find that I can 
uphold this part of Ms Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint regard to loans four to eight. Ferratum UK Ltd 
should:
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Ms P towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  that 
has already refunded.
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Ms P which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms P originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.remove all interest fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Ms P as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Ms P. However if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Ferratum should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Ms P.
E.Ferratum should  remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Ps credit file in 
relation to loans  four to six (although I note it has confirmed there is no adverse 
information regarding  these loans).  The overall  pattern of Ms Ps borrowing for loans 
Ref: DRN97057304seven and eight  means any information recorded  about them  is adverse, so these loans  
should be removed  entirely from Ms Ps credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires tax to be deducted from this interest. Ferratum UK Ltd 
should give Ms P a certificate showing how much  tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705730