K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with how their claim on their home insurance has been handled 
by U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) and its agents. They dont  think  the 
compensation Direct Line has offered them is reasonable. And they dont  think  Direct Line 
has treated their need for alternative accommodation fairly.
background
Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their home  insurance with Direct Line around 11 December 
2018. Their home was damaged, I understand because Mr P left their wood burning stove 
on a high setting  for too long in October  2018.
Direct Line initially  turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. But then it appointed a firm of loss 
adjusters to investigate. In his report following a visit to Mr and Mrs Ps home on 21 
December 2018,  the loss adjuster said Direct Line should accept liability for the damage.
Mr P says his claim stalled following a call with the loss adjusters to discuss  the repair  
costs in early January  2019. So he complained to Direct Line. 
In its first response to Mr P in the middle  of February  2019,  Direct Line said it hadnt  given  
him the right level of service or managed  his expectations. It apologised and offered Mr P 
£200 in compensation. Later  in February,  it offered Mr P an additional £100 in compensation 
because of a delay in getting  some CCTV footage it said it needed. And in March 2019,  it 
offered Mr P a further £300 in compensation because of what it described as discrepancies 
in what the loss adjusters had told Direct Line and the delay this had had on Mr Ps overall  
claims journey.
Unhappy with the compensation Direct Line had offered, Mr and Mrs P complained  to us. A 
little while  after this, they told us about  problems they were  having getting Direct Line to 
agree to their need for alternative accommodation while repairs  to their home were being 
done.
The investigator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ps complaint thought the compensation Direct 
Line had offered  them  was fair and reasonable. But she didnt think  Direct Line was handling 
Mr and Mrs Ps need for alternative accommodation reasonably.  
Neither Mr and Mrs P (in relation to their complaint about Direct  Lines  offer of 
compensation) nor Direct Line (in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about  alternative 
accommodation) agreed with our investigators findings. So Mr and Mrs Ps complaint came 
to me to decide.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said I intended  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. And I 
looked at their two areas of complaint separately  and gave  my reasons as follows:
Ref: DRN99276752level of compensation
Mr P would like Direct Line to pay compensation of £1,000, rather  than £600. He says the 
larger figure more accurately reflects the distress and inconvenience  Direct Line has caused 
him and his family.
But I think the compensation Direct Line has offered Mr and Mrs P of £600 for everything 
that happened to them up until around the middle  of March 2019  is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Direct Line initially  turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I think, from Direct Lines internal 
notes, this may have  been because, when Mr P first notified it of his loss, there was a 
question about  whether  the damage  had been caused by faulty workmanship rather  than 
something covered  by Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance (I say may because the notes arent 
entirely clearly to me). 
But it seems  a loss adjuster was appointed soon after Mr and Mrs P made their claim and he 
visited their home promptly. As Ive already said, he recommended Direct  Line should  accept 
liability for the loss. But he also recommended further investigation to decide if the damage 
fell under the fire or accidental damage  terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy.  
I think this was a fair and reasonable  recommendation. And I think this is probably why the 
loss adjusters then asked  Direct Line for its notes from when Mr P first notified it of his loss. 
And I think its probably on seeing these notes  which, as Ive said, refer to possible faulty 
workmanship  that the loss adjusters started asking Mr P for further information about his 
chimney and the stove. 
If this is what was happening, then I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable.  The loss 
adjusters had a duty to investigate Mr and Mrs Ps claim fully. And, if the damage had been 
caused by faulty workmanship,  Direct Line wouldve been entitled under Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy terms to turn down  the claim.  
But from what Ive seen,  at no point were Mr and Mrs P given any explanation as to why they 
were suddenly being asked questions about  the construction of their chimney and about the 
stove, etc  seemingly  out of the blue. All they knew was that a loss adjuster had said in 
December 2018  that liability would be accepted and yet, a couple of months  on, nothing  had 
happened and it seemed  as if the loss adjusters  were now disputing it. So while,  from what 
Ive seen so far, I dont  think Direct  Line or the loss adjusters acted unreasonably in asking 
Mr P for more  information, I think the absence of an explanation as to why this was 
happening was confusing,  annoying and upsetting for Mr and Mrs P.
And I should say Direct Line has agreed there  were  unnecessary delays in progressing      
Mr and Mrs Ps claim in January and March 2019,  which I think  wouldve added  to their 
distress. 
When Mr P first complained to us, he said he was living a nightmare and that no matter 
how I try I am unable to satisfy the appointed claims handler. He describes very clearly  how 
hard Direct Lines claims handling made  things  for him and his family. 
Nevertheless I think the compensation of £600 that Direct Line has offered Mr and Mrs P is 
fair and reasonable for the very poor service  and delays they experienced up until mid-
March 2019. I think  the loss adjusters  shouldve explained  to Mr and Mrs P why they were  
Ref: DRN99276753asking further  questions about  the chimney and stove. But I think  they were entitled  to ask 
those questions, given the recommendations in the loss adjusters report.  And thats why I 
dont intend to award Mr and Mrs P any more compensation  for the events up until mid-
March 2019.
When Mr P responded to our investigators view on his complaint, he was unhappy not to get 
an explanation  about why the loss adjusters, as he says, deliberately  sought to mislead 
him. He was also unhappy that Direct Line subsequently insisted on a sustained and 
ongoing engagement  with the loss adjusters. 
As Ive mentioned,  Direct  Line has acknowledged there were discrepancies  in what  the 
loss adjusters told it. And it has apologised to Mr P for this. I dont think  Mr P can reasonably 
expect it to do or say more. And I wouldnt expect Direct  Line to appoint new loss adjusters 
immediately after Mr and Mrs P made their complaint. But I think  it did appoint  new loss 
adjusters reasonably promptly after it had investigated and upheld  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
and recognised that the relationship between the two had broken down. 
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs P think Direct Line has acted unreasonably  in its handling of their requirement  
for alternative accommodation while repairs  were  made to their home. From  what  Ive seen 
so far, I agree.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy allows for alternative accommodation up to a maximum of £25,000 
when their home or part of their home isnt fit to be lived in while its being repaired, as long 
as a valid claim has been made. Ive also seen a copy of some Direct Line internal guidance 
that says examples of circumstances where a property may be considered to be 
uninhabitable are when any medical or physical needs of the people  living  at the property 
may also have an impact.
Fairly early on in the claims process,  Mr P explained to Direct Line that two family members 
living with him had medical  conditions. He said this would make  it difficult for them to find 
their home habitable while repairs were  carried  out. Subsequently it became clear the 
repairs works would mean Mr and Mrs Ps home  would have no heating or hot water for 
around 10 days while the repairs were carried out. So I think there  were  two reasons why  
Mr and Mrs Ps home wasnt fit to be lived in while repaired and why Direct Line should   
and did  agree to pay for alternative accommodation.
It seems  that by May 2019, Mr P had found alternative accommodation that, at that time, 
wouldve cost £976. But it was also around  this time that Direct Line told him it wouldnt pay 
his alternative accommodation  costs unless  his contractor could give it a daily schedule  of 
works to explain why there would be no heating or hot water at the property for 10 days. 
I dont think Direct Lines demand  for a daily schedule of costs was reasonable in                
Mr and Mrs Ps case. This was not a major  repair or reconstruction project. And both Mr P 
and the contractor gave Direct Line fairly detailed explanations as to why the wood burning 
stove needed to be removed and the heating system drained  as part of the repairs. Those 
explanations seem fair and reasonable to me. I dont think Direct  Line shouldve asked for 
more.
Weve asked Mr P recently what happened  about his alternative accommodation. Mr P says 
he missed out on the accommodation hed found when the repairs  were first to take place 
Ref: DRN99276754(that is, the accommodation that was covered  by the £976  quote hed got). He says he 
managed to find a holiday  let for two weeks in August that was 10 miles from his home  at 
£750 per week, plus a £500  damage  deposit.  He says he borrowed £2,000 from his sister to 
pay for the alternative  accommodation and he still owes  her £1,500.  
In these circumstances, I intend  to direct Direct  Line to pay Mr P and Mrs P £1,500  for their 
accommodation costs  in August 2019. It would  be helpful  if Mr P could send us an invoice or 
receipt for these costs  or any other evidence he has that theyve been paid. I realise  these 
costs are for a full two weeks rental period  and the repair  works  were only scheduled to take 
10 days. But, especially  in the August holiday season, I wouldnt have expected Mr P to be 
able to get a 10 day let. And, in any case, its because of Direct Lines unreasonable 
requirement for a daily schedule of works  that Mr P was unable  to use the accommodation 
hed first found at a cheaper rate. So I think its fair and reasonable Direct Line should pay 
his full rental costs  of £1,500. 
It is very clear to me that Direct Lines failure  to act reasonably in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim for alternative accommodation has added greatly to the distress Mr P, in particular, has 
suffered and continues  to suffer. For some months  he was left in limbo  his repair claim  had 
been cash settled  following  the involvement  of a second firm of loss adjusters but his need 
for alternative accommodation was still unresolved. And ultimately, from what  he says, he 
had to borrow money from a family member for alternative accommodation that he was 
entitled to under his insurance  policy. In these circumstances, I intend to direct Direct Line to 
pay Mr and Mrs P an additional £400  in compensation for the additional  distress  and 
inconvenience its handling of their need for alternative accommodation has caused them.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs P have  accepted my provisional decision. Mr P has also sent us a receipt for his 
rental costs  of £1,500, as I requested. Direct Line hasnt responded to my provisional 
decision. So Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is now with me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold                   
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct  U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) to put 
things right as I set out below.
Ref: DRN99276755my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct U K Insurance  
Limited (trading as Direct Line) to pay Mr and Mrs P:
Compensation of £600 for the distress and inconvenience its claims handling process 
caused them  up until mid-March 2019;
£1,500 for Mr and Mrs Ps alterative accommodation costs;
£400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling of their need 
for alternative accommodation has caused them.
U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct  Line)  should pay the above compensation within 28 
days of the date we tell it Mr and Mrs P have accepted my final decision.  If it doesnt, it 
should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple  on all the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9927675