K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA).
background
In March 2017 Miss W was supplied  with a car and entered into a Personal  Contract  
Purchase (PCP) finance agreement with FCA. At the point of supply the car was 
approximately 3 years  old and had covered approximately 21,500 miles.
In August  2018  the car broke  down.  It was recovered to a garage who advised  Miss W that 
the cam belt shaft  was loose which had caused the cam shaft positioner bolts  to shear away,  
which in turn had caused a fault with the engine  leading  to a lack of oil. The garage 
estimated the costs  of repair at approximately £4500.
Miss w complained to FCA in September 2018. She said shed been advised  that the service 
records for the car werent accurate and that a service campaign which  shouldve  been 
completed in 2016 to replace the cam shaft positioner hadnt been  carried out. Miss W felt 
that this had led to the failure  of the engine and asked  FCA to meet her repair  costs.
FCA refused. It said the service book had been  stamped with an authentic  stamp to show 
that the services  had been completed and that it was up to the manufacturer to investigate 
this further if it believed that the services hadnt  been completed.  FCA also said that the fault 
experienced by Miss W wasnt  due to an inherent  defect but was instead  due to wear and 
tear.
Miss W wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that although the car had been serviced in 
2016, it appeared that the service campaign  relating to the camshaft positioner hadnt  been 
completed and that on the balance of probability this had led to the failure of the part. The 
investigator concluded that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and 
recommended that FCA should refund Miss W the costs of repair,  or if repairs werent viable, 
allow her to reject the car.
FCA didnt agree. It said that because Miss W had already had the car repaired it had been 
prevented from obtaining  repair quotes. It offered to refund 50% of Miss Ws repair costs.
Whilst this complaint was being prepared for a final decision, Miss W decided  to part 
exchange the car for a new car. She says shes incurred a loss of £1603.16 on the part 
exchange and has asked for this to be taken into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCA has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regards as 
acceptable, taking  into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
Ref: DRN99344332second hand car such as that supplied to Miss W to have a degree of wear and tear. So in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general  wear and tear.
Miss W and FCA disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. So in 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Miss W experienced issues with the car in August 2018, approximately  17 months after the 
point of supply.  Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months, its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. If the consumer can 
show this, its up to the business to put things right.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at the point  of 
supply. Theres no report in this case and I dont think theres anything to be gained by 
obtaining one now because the car has already been repaired.  So Ive looked at the 
available evidence to determine whether there  was a point of supply fault with the car.
Theres no dispute that the fault with the car was related to the cam shaft  positioner bolts. 
FCA has said that this is a fault which  couldve developed over time due to wear and tear. 
Its also said that because  Miss W has manged  to cover approximately 14,000 miles in the 
car since the point  of supply, its unlikely that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account what FCA has said. However, in this case theres  strong evidence to 
suggest that the car shouldve had a service campaign completed in 2016 to address an 
issue with the camshaft  positioner. Although I can see that the car was serviced in 2016,  the 
service campaign doesnt appear to have been  completed. The manufacturer  has confirmed  
that theres no record of the service campaign having been  carried  out on Miss Ws car. This 
means that essential  repair  works  havent  been carried  out and the part was likely to fail at 
any time.
Theres no engineers  report which says the fault with the car which  caused  it to break down 
was linked to the missed  service campaign.  But Im persuaded  that its more  likely than not 
that theres a link. This is because  the part identified in the service campaign (the camshaft  
positioner) is in the same location as the part which failed when the car broke  down in 
August 2018.  The diagnostic  provided  by the garage found that the camshaft  had come 
loose and the bolts had sheared off. Whilst this isnt exactly  the same  issue as that identified  
in the service campaign, Im satisfied that its sufficiently similar to safely  conclude that on 
the balance of probabilities the fault with Miss Ws car was linked to the service campaign.  
I appreciate that the car covered several thousand miles before the fault occurred. I can also 
see the car had been serviced  with no faults reported. I dont think the mileage covered is a 
relevant factor here, because the issue identified in the service campaign had the potential 
to fail at any time irrespective of mileage. In relation to the servicing  of the car, I dont think  a 
third party garage would necessarily be aware of a manufacturers service campaign,  so I 
wouldnt expect it to check the component part for potential issues.
Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. FCA are 
responsible for putting things right. When Miss W complained to FCA it rejected her 
complaint and advised her that she was responsible  for repairs.   So she arranged for the car 
to be repaired.  I dont think, in these circumstances, that its reasonable for FCA to refuse to 
Ref: DRN99344333pay for all or part of the repairs on the basis that it wasnt able to obtain  alternative repair  
quotes.
Miss W has explained that shes incurred additional  costs as she was unable  to use the car 
for a period  of time. Shes continued  to make her monthly payments but has had to pay for 
insurance to drive another car. I think Miss W should receive  a refund of her additional  costs,  
and a refund  of her monthly  payments  for the time she was unable to use the car.
Miss W has asked  me to consider her losses on the part exchange of the car. I havent seen 
any evidence that the losses are directly related to the fault with the car. The part exchange 
value of a car can be affected by a number  of factors,  including  condition and mileage. I 
have no reason to think that a car which has been fully repaired would be worth less on part 
exchange due to a historic  fault.  Because of this I wont be asking FCA to cover Miss Ws 
losses.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd must:
Refund Miss W the full cost of repairs
Refund Miss W the additional insurance  costs shes incurred of £474.49
Refund Miss W her monthly  payments  from the date of breakdown  to the date repairs 
were completed
Pay compensation of £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934433