K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her that it was closing her local 
branch. 
background
Ms C complains that Nationwide closed  her local branch. She said she only found out it had 
been closed when she visited it on 1 February  2019. She said on this occasion she had 
wanted to pay some money into her account.  So, she made a special trip to her branch in 
adverse weather conditions. She said this had added difficulties for her because she is 
elderly and disabled. 
Ms C wasnt  happy she had made a wasted trip. And she also wasnt happy  that she couldnt 
use the ATM outside her branch  as it wasnt operational  at the time of her visit. She said she 
doesnt have the internet and isnt registered  for online banking. So, she thought Nationwide  
shouldve notified  her in a way that was accessible  to her prior to it closing her local branch. 
Ms C complained to Nationwide about  what happened. But it didnt uphold her complaint. It 
said the branch  in question had closed at 2 pm on 25 January 2019 for health  and safety  
reasons while  it was undergoing refurbishment. And it explained that the ATM  machine was 
non operational during the closure  period as it couldnt be monitored or filled.  It also said it 
had notified its customers of the branch closure  on its website. When  Nationwide responded 
to the complaint Ms C brought to our service it said it had been informing customers  who 
visited the branch  of its closure from November 2018. It also said it had displayed  posters in 
and outside of the branch,  which notified customers of the impending  closure from 
December 2018.  So it didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Ms C disagreed with Nationwides response  to her complaint and brought  it to us. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened  but didnt uphold  Ms Cs complaint. He didnt 
think Nationwide had done anything wrong. He also thought Ms C had another  branch a 
short distance away from the closed branch that was accessible to her. So, he didnt think  
any compensation was warranted here.  But Ms C didnt agree and asked for her complaint  
to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I acknowledge that our investigators comments about what Ms C could have done after she 
found out her branch had been closed may have caused upset and been unhelpful. If that 
made things  worse for Ms C Id like to apologise  for that. But I think its important  to say this 
doesnt change  the complaint itself and Ive looked  at it independently  of our investigator.  
While I recognise that closing Ms Cs local branch is bound  to have been inconvenient  to her 
Ill make  it clear at the outset that I wont be commenting on whether it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to close Ms Cs branch from 25 January  until 1 April 2019. This is because  
Nationwide is entitled to make a commercial  decision to close  a branch for refurbishment as 
happened here. And thats not a decision our service can interfere with. In any event the 
crux of this complaint, as I understand it, is about  whether Nationwide  provided reasonable 
notice and did what it could to minimise the impact of its branch closure  on Ms C.
Ref: DRN93269372Nationwide said it advertised the branch closure  on its website and Ive no reason to doubt  
that happened. But Ms C has told our service that she doesnt have the internet  so she isnt 
able to access information about  branch closures online. With that in mind  Ive thought about 
whether Nationwide took reasonable steps to notify Ms C about the closure of her local 
branch in ways  that were accessible to her.
Nationwide said it notified customers  visiting  the branch from November 2018 of the 
impending closure.  So, it said customers attending  Ms Cs local branch would have been 
aware it was due to close. Ive listened  to calls that Nationwide has provided our service  
about Ms Cs complaint.  During these calls staff at Ms Cs local and neighbouring  branches  
state that customers were  informed  about  the closure when visiting the branch for weeks  
before the closure took place. I understand that Ms C says no one approached  her when she 
visited her branch. But Ive no reason to doubt what Nationwide said it did here to alert 
customers of the forthcoming branch closure.  This means Im persuaded that Nationwide 
staff were telling customers about  the impending branch closure.  And I also think they were 
doing so for a reasonable length of time.
Nationwide says it provided reasonable notice of Ms Cs local branch closing by displaying  
posters in and outside the branch from December 2018 until the branch  closed  on 25 
January 2019.  Based  on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that this marketing 
paraphernalia would have  most  likely explained  that the branch would be closed and the 
reason for and period  of the closure. I think this was a reasonable step for Nationwide  to 
take. And I also think Nationwide displayed these  posters for a reasonable length  of time 
before the branch closed.
Ms C said she didnt  see them when  she visited her branch. And she said she hadnt  noticed 
any posters during  her visit the week prior to the closure of her branch. But I think, on 
balance, Nationwide  would  have displayed posters in and outside the branch. And I think its 
possible that Ms C hadnt noticed them. They may not have stood out to her. Overall, Im 
persuaded Nationwide did all it reasonably could to warn customers attending its branch 
about the impending closure.
Ms C says the branch closure  posters  outside  the branch  werent there when she visited on 
1 February. And she said she was only told about the specifics  of the closure when she 
contacted Nationwide over the telephone  after her visit. She isnt happy that posters 
explaining the branch  closure  didnt  remain  outside after the branch had closed. But I dont 
think this is unreasonable because by this time the branch had been  closed for a week.  So, I 
cant reasonably  say Nationwide would have  had reason to continue to display posters  when 
it would  have been clear to anyone attending the branch that it was shut.
Ms C wasnt  happy that she wasnt able to use the ATM at her branch when she attended 
because it wasnt operational due to the branch being closed at the time. I can appreciate 
her frustration here. But bearing  in mind that the branch was due to be closed for over two 
months Im persuade its reasonable that the ATM was taken out of service. Had it remained 
operational it would have  been difficult to monitor and know when the ATM needed refilling. 
Im also satisfied there would have,  most  likely, been security  concerns in leaving an ATM  
operational when the branch was closed. It follows that I dont think Nationwide did anything 
wrong in taking the ATM out of service.
Ref: DRN93269373I appreciate that Ms C had a wasted trip to her branch in adverse weather conditions. And I 
can empathise that this journey would have  been challenging. I can also understand the 
frustration that she would have felt having  made  that journey only to discover that her branch 
had been closed. But, overall,  Im satisfied that Nationwide acted in good  faith here. It 
provided reasonable notice of this branch closure  and captured as much  of its customer  
base as it could  by informing those visiting the branch of its closure. Im satisfied  it did what  it 
could to minimise the impact of its branch closure  on Ms C. 
Ms C says as a result of this experience she closed her account  with Nationwide. But its her 
choice to move her banking elsewhere  if she isnt happy with Nationwide.  And, as I think  
Nationwide has dealt  with Ms Cs complaint fairly,  Im not telling it to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9326937