K820x#14complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1997 with a store  card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  being  the 
insurer and underwriter, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Ms S bought the PPI to protect her card payments during a phone call several months after 
she had taken out the card.
She says the policy was added without her knowledge and if shed known about it she 
wouldnt have taken  it. 
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Ms S owed on her store card.  It would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance  on the card each month if Ms S couldnt  work if she had an 
accident, was unwell  or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ms S disagreed so the complaint has been  
passed to me for final a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Theres limited  information available to me about  what happened at the time of the sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been  said. FICL has told us its records  show Ms S 
bought the policy during a phone call.  Based on that, I think its unlikely she was given a 
recommendation about it being right for her. But FICL still needed to give Ms S enough clear 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was something shed find useful. 
Its over 20 years since Ms S bought  the PPI, and theres no recording  or other  details 
available of what was said during  the call. So in order to uphold  Ms Ss complaint, I would 
need to think that something had gone wrong during the phone sales process  so that 
Ms S had been  mis-sold  the PPI.  
Unfortunately, there simply  isnt enough  available evidence, taking into account the available 
information about FICLs sales processes  at this time, for me to make such  a finding. I think  
on balance Ms S knew she was agreeing to take out the PPI cover at the time and that she 
had a choice about whether to buy it. And as this was a monthly  policy  it appeared on her 
store card statements  Ms S could  have cancelled it at any time if she didnt want it.
I dont know exactly what information  Ms S received  about the policy  at the time of sale.  But 
even if I were to accept that Ms S wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
Ref: DRN97109812dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Ms S was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made  it difficult  for her to make a claim  a pre-
existing medical condition as an example. 
Ms S also told us she was entitled  to employee benefits of between three to six months if 
she was away from work  due to illness. But from what  we know,  this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay she would receive. So any employee benefits  she received 
could have been used for other  essential outgoings. 
So I think the policy could  have proved useful to Ms S if shed had an accident, become ill or 
lost her job.
I cant say whether FICL made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Ms S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think  if she 
had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have thought  the policy  
potentially useful. Ive seen that the policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the 
outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly  cost doesnt seem to have been 
unaffordable.
Overall, while  I cant say if FICL  did everything  it needed to when it sold the policy  to Ms S, I 
think she knew she had a choice about  taking the PPI. And I think she would still have taken 
out the cover if shed  been properly informed about it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9710981