K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their property insurer AXA Insurance  UK Plc in 
relation to its decline of a personal possessions claim they made  to it after items were  
stolen from their vehicle whilst  on holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs R were staying in a chalet on a private  estate. The grounds had two
night-watchmen on patrol. Mr and Mrs R were travelling with a lot of camping equipment 
and all their personal belongings.  To facilitate that they had dropped the backseat of 
their SUV to create a larger carrying space.
Mr and Mrs R noted the chalet they were  staying in had an issue  with the door-lock. 
Knowing there were  guards around, and given the SUV was fully locked, they chose to 
leave their camera and most of their other belongings, including  the camping gear,  in the 
SUV.
The next morning  they found the small quarter window, which  is part of the rear 
passenger door of the vehicle, had been  removed. They noted various items had been 
disturbed  perhaps  by the thief using something to reach in and pull items towards the 
window. They also noted that various  belongings (not all belonging to them) were 
missing, including  their camera. They made  a claim to AXA for the camera.
AXA declined the claim. It noted the cover  for personal possessions didnt include loss or 
damage:
e) caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended  motor vehicle unless the items 
are hidden  from view in a boot or glove compartment,  and all windows are closed and all 
doors, including the boot,  are locked;
AXA saw photos  of the SUV and noted the small window that had been utilised to 
complete the theft. It felt this meant  the camera must have been  on show and was 
unlikely to have  been in the boot (given the window wasnt in what would normally be 
considered as the boot area). Mr and Mrs R said that term was only relevant if the 
vehicle was unattended, which it wasnt given  the guards. And, in any event, the whole 
of the rear of the car was, effectively the boot, and the camera had been concealed 
amongst the camping gear. When AXA wouldnt change its position Mr and Mrs R 
complained to us.
Our investigator noted the term quoted by AXA was an exclusion. He said if AXA wanted to 
rely on an exclusion to defeat the claim it was up to it to show it could reasonably  do so. In 
that respect  he felt AXA hadnt done  enough to show the camera  hadnt  been concealed. He 
said it should reconsider the claim and pay £100 compensation.
AXA said it felt it had made a fair decision, based on the evidence  available. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
I didnt agree with the findings  our investigator had made.  I issued a provisional decision 
in which  I explained  why I felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. My provisional findings  
were:
Ref: DRN93311722The policy  gives Mr and Mrs R cover for their personal possessions around the world. 
But, as set out above, that cover excludes  loss or damage:
e) caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended  motor vehicle unless the items 
are hidden  from view in a boot or glove compartment,  and all windows are closed and all 
doors, including the boot,  are locked;
It is true that where an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to defeat the claim  it is up 
to it to show it can reasonably do that. But the wording in question  here isnt, strictly  
speaking, just an exclusion. The policys use of the word unless means that only the 
first part of the term is an exclusion, the remainder (after the word unless)  is a 
definition. In terms of definitions, it is up to the policyholder to show  their loss falls within  
that remit. Ive broken  this down below.
Here what  is excluded  is loss or damage caused  by theft or attempted theft from an 
unattended vehicle. So if the theft occurred from an unattended vehicle, and whether 
AXA shows  that or the facts speak for themselves, then the claim is defeated unless  
the circumstances comply with the definition that follows.
Mr and Mrs R have argued  the vehicle wasnt unattended because of the guards.  Im not 
persuaded the presence of the guards means the vehicle was attended. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs R felt the car, and items  in it were  secure.  But that is not the 
same thing. This service  considers that for someone to be in attendance of a vehicle 
they have to be capable of protecting  it or preventing harm  from coming to it. Their 
attention cant  be diverted  or focused elsewhere.  The guards werent there  to only watch 
Mr and Mrs Rs vehicle, and Mr and Mrs R were asleep some distance away.  I dont 
think its unreasonable that AXA viewed  the vehicle, based on the facts  presented  to it, 
as being unattended.
So the loss is excluded. Unless the circumstances  meet the definition in the second part 
of the term. And in that respect  Mr and Mrs R have to show  this is the case.  So, whilst 
there is a debate about what constitutes  a boot, before that becomes relevant, 
Mr and Mrs R first have  to show that the camera was most likely hidden  from view.
Mr and Mrs R say the camera was hidden, that it was likely uncovered  by chance when 
the thieves rifled through the gear and then dragged it to the rear window to be stolen. 
AXA says its most  likely the camera was on view and this is evidenced by the nature of 
its removal via the side-rear window.
I think the arguments from both sides have merit. That presents a difficulty for 
Mr and Mrs R. It means they havent shown  their understanding of the circumstances of 
the theft is the most likely one. Its possible that is what  happened.  But AXAs  version is 
also possible. And I am mindful that in many instances of theft its often the case that 
vehicles are targeted because items  of value are on show. Im also mindful of 
Mr and Mrs Rs report of the area being  guarded   which makes  me think its less likely 
that thieves would have had time, or felt at ease enough, to rifle through what  
Mr and Mrs R say looked like nothing other than camping equipment and items  that 
could generally  not be removed through  such a small gap, on the off-chance  that some 
easily-removable valuables might be found.
Its possible Mr and Mrs R are right, and I accept they fully believe this is what  
happened. But that doesnt mean  it is most likely what happened. And that means  they 
Ref: DRN93311723havent shown  that the loss meets the definition  of cover AXA was providing  for them.  
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs R but Im satisfied  that AXAs decline of 
their claim was fair and reasonable.  As such I dont intend to make it reconsider the 
matter or pay them any compensation.
AXA didnt respond. Mr and Mrs R said they were  hurt by my findings  which  they felt 
meant I thought they were lying and said the findings only reinforced their view that the 
starting point here had always  been that a fraudulent claim had been made  which they 
then had to show  otherwise.  Mr and Mrs R also said:
The photos taken  when the theft was found  clearly showed the gear in the back  had 
been rifled through and some items had been  discarded on the ground.
If the camera had been  in view,  then none  of that would have been necessary.
The thieves werent in any rush as they also took time to steal items from a camping 
fridge which Mr and Mrs R had plugged in and left outside.
The guards  were suspected by the local police as at least having  been complicit in 
the theft.
It isnt true that they said only camping equipment and large items were on show,  
theyve clearly commented that bags and boxes were in the back too.
The thieves werent just interested in what are considered valuables in wealthy 
countries like the UK  items like a hammer and face creams  were taken too.
In summary  Mr and Mrs R said it cannot  be deduced conclusively from the evidence  
that the camera was on view. They maintain the items stolen, which  they are claiming 
for, were out of sight.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither I nor AXA have suggested this was a fraudulent claim. Nor have I said that 
Mr and Mrs R have lied. Im sorry theyre hurt by my findings but they are made based on 
the relevant policy  wording and the facts  as evidenced.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs R believe the theft happened as theyve reported. But 
believing something  is the case, and evidencing it arent necessarily  the same thing. The 
points Mr and Mrs R have made in response all help me understand why theyve drawn  the 
conclusions they have but dont  evidence how or why the theft most likely occurred.
In that respect  Mr and Mrs R have their theory  and AXA has its. I understand their reasons 
for their theory, and AXAs for its. The difficulty for Mr and Mrs R is that Im not persuaded, 
based on what Ive seen, that their theory  is most likely to have been what  happened.  To me 
their reasoning and theory is no more or less persuasive than AXAs.  
Its possible the thieves  having seen large  bags and boxes in the car belonging to foreign 
travellers, decided to break-in and rummage for items of worth to them and, in so doing,  
came across  the camera by chance.  But it is also possible that the camera could be seen 
which precipitated  the theft and the thieves took the opportunity, having found  a camera, to 
rummage for other  items of worth to them. 
Ref: DRN93311724Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustration, this isnt about what  can be deduced  
conclusively. For me to find against  an insurer, I have to be satisfied that it failed its 
policyholder in some way. In this case Id have  to be satisfied that it was unfair for AXA to 
rely on the policy wording  to defeat  the claim.  Given what Ive seen and said during the 
course of my considerations, Im not persuaded it was. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9331172