K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  about  her furniture warranty provider Amtrust Europe Limited 
because it declined her claim made  for damage to her sofa.
background
Miss Ks son contacted  Amtrust to report damage  to the sofa. Amtrust sent an assessor  out 
to look at the damage. His report stated:
The consumer said her friends children  were left in the living room with toys and they 
caused [the damage]. However, I struggle to see how this damage couldve been  caused by 
toys and looks more  like deliberate slashes with a sharp object  perhaps a knife.
Miss Ks son said he had reported  the damage  having been caused by sharp studs  on 
childrens clothes not toys. He thought  Miss K had been confused when shed  spoken  to the 
assessor. Amtrust  referred back to the assessor. He didnt think clothing could have caused 
the damage either, he said he stood by his initial conclusion.
Amtrust wrote to Miss K and said the professional opinion was that the damage claimed for 
couldnt have  been caused  in the way reported.  It said it was declining  the claim on the 
grounds the damage was deliberate. A few days later Amtrust wrote to Miss K again.  It 
clarified that the damage wasnt considered to have resulted from a single incident of 
accidental damage  as covered by the policy. In that respect it felt its decision to decline the 
claim had been  correct.
Miss K, represented by her son, complained  to this service. Our investigator, having  
considered the assessors report, felt Amtrusts  decline of the claim on the basis  the damage 
had been caused deliberately, was fair and reasonable.
Miss Ks son said Amtrust's assessor wasnt independent so his view was likely biased. He 
said he hadnt been given the opportunity  of getting  his own report. Our investigator said he 
could allow time for a report  to be obtained  and provided. After  a while Miss Ks son 
confirmed that this option hadnt been pursued and that a decision was required.  But he said 
it was unfair  that whilst no claim had been  made  on the policy  previously, now a claim was 
being made Amtrust  didnt want to uphold it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ks warranty only offers cover for repairing damage caused by a sudden  and 
unforeseen accidental event.  It also specifically excludes cover for damage that has been 
caused deliberately.
Ultimately Amtrust didnt decline the claim on the basis of the exclusion. Rather it didnt think  
damage as covered by the policy had occurred. Looking  at the term set out immediately 
above, and taking into account the assessors  report, I think  it has a point.
Ref: DRN99411452The only expert opinion  available  here is that of Amtrusts assessor.  He thinks  the damage 
wasnt caused in the way reported (either by toys or clothing). So Miss K hasnt  then 
established that damage as covered by the policy has been  caused. 
The assessor goes  further and concludes  the damage must have been caused  deliberately.  
Deliberate damage is specifically excluded, but if a deliberate  act results in damage,  it is 
usually the case  that the damage isnt considered  to be unforeseen. If a knife was utilised 
here it would  be difficult  to reasonably conclude that a gash in the leather was an unforeseen 
consequence of that act.  
In any event Miss K hasnt obtained  her own report showing the damage had most likely 
resulted from the leather coming  into contact with sharp studs on clothing.  Or toys.  Or 
indeed suddenly as a result of any other unforeseen event. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
Amtrusts decline  of her claim was fair and reasonable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Amtrust  Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9941145