K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about the buildings insurer for his property, Allianz Insurance  Plc. 
He feels its handled  his claim for water damage to his kitchen poorly and offered him 
unreasonable settlements.
background
Mr Bs kitchen  was damaged in March 2018  from a leak from the flat above. In June 2018 he 
made a claim for the damage to Allianz  which, on principle it accepted. The delay in 
notification wasnt a concern for Allianz  and it agreed to consider the claim. It said it wanted  
to do that by considering quotes from Mr B for repair.
Mr B sent Allianz two quotes in August 2018,  both were for over £50,000. It decided to 
appoint a loss adjuster  to view the damage. The adjuster noted damage to the ceiling and 
the laminate finish  on some cupboard  fronts. Mr B said he was happy for Allianz to appoint 
contractors to do the work.
Contractors werent appointed.  After  several months  the loss adjuster appointed a surveyor 
to assess the kitchen and damage. The surveyor didnt think the kitchen needed replacing, 
or that it was of particularly high quality. He felt it could be repaired  and the cost for that 
would be around  £8,000.  But around this time concerns were raised as to whether  the 
kitchen was dry and, following the surveyors visit a drying company was appointed. The 
drying company  found that the ceiling was very wet, with the upper  walls slightly  affected  it 
was felt the wall units were masking damage  and recommendations  were  made  for the room  
to be stripped. The loss adjuster told Mr B he should get a quote for this.
By now Mr B was feeling  quite frustrated. In early  January he told the loss adjuster he just 
wanted the work doing and it should  appoint contractors to do so with a view to completing  
the work  by the end of the month.  The loss adjuster and surveyor felt Mr Bs tone was 
unreasonable, and the surveyor refused to assist in the claim further.  Mr B said he was no 
longer confident in having  Allianz complete the work. Allianz then said it felt a properly priced 
scope for repair  was needed  the previously  completed estimate by the surveyor was 
unlikely, Allianz  felt, to be indicative of the actual likely cost of repair. Mr B consented to a 
contractor attending  for this purpose. 
The contractor completed a scope to the value of £29,196.86, plus VAT, noting  that the 
kitchen now needed  replacing. Allianz was minded to settle on this sum, or appoint 
contractors, but that offer wasnt put to Mr B by its loss adjuster. The loss adjuster made 
further enquiries regarding the kitchen Mr B had said hed had, couldnt find evidence that 
was the case,  and told Mr B his option  was to accept the £8,000 as previously offered, or to 
have another  surveyor appointed to view the damage  and review  all the estimates  for work.  
Mr B wasnt  minded to have another assessment visit take place. 
The loss adjuster had a surveyor complete a desktop review.  The surveyor felt the scope 
and costs determined  by the contractor  were reasonable. Allianz then told Mr B he had two 
options; let it do the work, or agree  to a staged  payment  plan, with an upfront payment of 
£4,000 being made  and further payments  to a total value of £28,000 plus VAT paid on 
receipt of proof of costs being incurred.  Mr B said he wasnt  prepared to accept staged 
payments; explaining this claim had, by that time,  been ongoing  for 18 months; he just 
wanted an end to the matter.
Ref: DRN96730262Mr B also told Allianz he wanted  reimbursing  for costs hed incurred in obtaining the original 
quotes. He also said he understood he should have been paid a disturbance allowance. 
Allianz said it would be unusual for a consumer to be charged  for estimates  to be produced. 
Regarding a disturbance allowance it felt this hadnt been needed so far as the kitchen was 
usable. But it said it would consider  paying  one for the reasonable duration  of repairs.  Allianz 
told Mr B that it did feel it could have handled  the claim  better. 
When Mr B complained to us, our investigator felt that Allianz offer of settlement was 
reasonable. He didnt  think a disturbance allowance had been required.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied by what was said. The complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I felt Allianz had failed  Mr B and that it should  pay him £29,196.86,  plus interest from 
15 April 2019, and if Mr B had incurred or does incur VAT, that it should reimburse this cost 
also. Further, I felt Allianz should  pay Mr B £140 in respect of a disturbance  allowance and 
£500 compensation. 
Allianz made  no objection  to my findings. It contacted  Mr B and set out what  it intended  to 
pay him, which was inclusive, it said, of a deduction  of £1,000 for Mr Bs policy excess. Mr B 
said he didnt agree with everything  Id said but noted that Id, correctly in his view, 
concluded that Allianz hadnt handled  the claim well. He said he only had two concerns 
which he wanted addressing in my final decision:
Interest should  be paid from 2018 not 2019. To him, 2019 seemed  to be an arbitrary date 
of no relevance.
Allianz had asked, following receipt  of my provisional decision and in order for it to pay 
him an amount  in respect of VAT,  for him to provide receipts to show VAT being 
incurred. He said this didnt seem to be a requirement set out in my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
settlement
Ive set out some detail above about how this clam progressed.  But this is a condensed, 
summarised version of events. Having seen everything though  I cant  see any good reason 
why contractors werent appointed shortly after the loss adjusters visit in 2018. Or why later, 
when matters progressed  without that happening,  an offer of settlement wasnt made  in line 
with Allianz contractors estimate.  Especially not when that is specifically what Allianz had 
told Mr B would happen when seeking his agreement to complete that further review of 
costs. Going back on that agreement and then insisting on staged payments, when it was 
Allianz own failures that had created the necessity for a cash payment in the first place, in 
my view, wasnt  fair or reasonable. I think the costs  Allianz contractor determined  were fair 
and reasonable.  Im going to require  Allianz to pay Mr B £29,196.86,  plus interest* from 
15 April 2019 until settlement is made. And if Mr B incurs VAT in reinstating his kitchen, 
Allianz will have to reimburse that to a maximum of the VAT sum due for the total value of 
the settlement  figure plus interest*.
Ref: DRN96730263I note Mr Bs view that interest  should  be awarded  from 2018.  However,  in this case, Im 
satisfied the date of 15 April 2019 is a reasonable point for me to say interest should be 
applied from. This is the date when the cost of the outstanding  repairs,  and the loss Mr B 
would therefore  face if he completed  that work himself, was determined.  An award of interest 
from this date reasonably  accounts for any increase in costs  which  may have occurred due 
to the time which has passed since. Where the costs/loss has been  crystallised  in this way, 
I dont think it would  be fair to make  Allianz  pay interest back to the date of the claim. 
I note, in Allianz settlement offer made  to Mr B, post my provisional decision, that interest 
was capped to a date when Allianz had asked Mr B for his bank details. Whilst I recognise 
that in doing this Allianz was acting  to comply with my findings, my provisional findings had 
not yet progressed to a final decision. And Mr B reasonably needs a chance to consider my 
findings as set out fully in my final decision, before he can decide whether  or not to accept 
the award provisionally suggested. So, once Mr B accepts  my final decision, if he does 
within the deadline given, he should,  within  14 days,  give Allianz the details it needs  to make 
payment to him. If he does so then interest will need to be paid until Allianz makes 
settlement. If Mr B doesnt provide the requisite details in that time then the application of 
interest will be capped,  so it only has to be applied until the 14-day period has expired. 
Allianz says that, to date, no excess has been paid for the claim. And Mr B hasnt shown me 
an excess has been paid  perhaps  to one of Allianz contractors during the initial stages of 
the claim.  If he has paid this, he should show Allianz and it wont be able to take that amount 
again. Assuming  this hasnt been  paid already, its not unreasonable for Allianz to ask for the 
excess to be paid,  or to take payment for this by way of making a deduction from the 
settlement. But this has to be in line with what is allowed for by the policy.  As this was a 
claim for water damage, only the excess applicable to water damage claims,  along with any 
relevant adjustment allowed for by any specific terms, can reasonably  be deducted by 
Allianz (assuming  a payment for excess  is due). 
I understand why Mr B might be reluctant to provide receipts for Allianz to consider.  But if 
Mr B has had a loss in respect of VAT, and whilst Allianz reasonably needs to reimburse  
that, Mr B has to evidence  that loss. The fact of work needing to be done, even where this 
has then been  completed by Mr B, doesnt  evidence  that he most likely incurred or will incur  
a cost for VAT. Often receipts or invoices are the best way to show  this  and Allianz only 
needs to see proof  in relation to the insured works agreed. But there  might  be other 
evidence Mr B has which he can present to Allianz  to show this loss, and Id expect Allianz 
to give that reasonable consideration. In my view Allianz request for proof to be provided  to 
it before  it makes a payment in respect of VAT is reasonable.  
I continued provisionally to consider other aspects of Mr Bs complaint:
other costs
Allianz said it would consider Mr Bs cost for obtaining estimates. I think that was fair of it. 
I havent seen  any proof  he paid for these though. So I wont make  any award.
Where a home lacks  basic  facilities and a policyholder stays there, or where they stay in 
accommodation not like their home, such as a hotel, an insurer  will often pay a disturbance 
allowance. This is often (but not always)  paid at £10 per adult  per day. It accounts for extra 
costs incurred due to the lack of normal facilities. 
Ref: DRN96730264Whilst Mr B told us he couldnt use his kitchen,  Ive seen nothing  that makes me think  that is 
the case on account of the leak or outstanding repairs. But Allianz accepts that during 
reinstatement, Mr B wont be able to use the kitchen. Replacing  a kitchen, I think,  shouldnt  
take more than a couple  of weeks. To draw this matter to a close Im going to say Allianz 
should pay Mr B £140 as a disturbance allowance for a two-week period of reinstatement.  
claim handling
I think  Allianz should have assessed  the damage  itself from the outset.  Further,  when it did 
then assess it, it missed  a valuable opportunity to appoint its own contractors, which Mr B 
was agreeable  to at that time. I also see that the progress of the claim was often stalled due 
to confusion over internal  processes and, on several  key occasions, the loss adjuster simply 
not following  the directions given to them by Allianz.  I think  this is something  Allianz  could 
and should have managed better. Having seen everything that happened, I can fully 
understand why by late 2018 Mr B had become  frustrated. And why as 2019 progressed, his 
frustration grew. I think all of this could have been  avoided.
On top of that, with the claim  outstanding, Mr B has had to live with a damaged  kitchen. Hes 
explained how this has been embarrassing  for him. 
Overall, I think Allianz should pay Mr B £500  compensation. I think  this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.  
Neither party commented on these aspects. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mr B:
£29,196.86, minus  the excess amount allowed for by the policy  (assuming this is 
outstanding), plus interest* applied from 15 April 2019. If Mr B accepts my decision 
within the deadline, and provides Allianz details  of how it can pay the award within 
14 days of the date of his acceptance   the application of interest  will run until settlement 
is made. But if Mr B accepts my decision  within the deadline, and does not provide 
Allianz with details of how it can pay the award  within 14 days  of the date of his 
acceptance  the application  of interest  will cease  at the end of the 14-day  period (which 
begins on the date Mr B accepts my final decision,  if he does).
If VAT is incurred (or has been incurred),  and upon Mr B providing  proof  of this to Allianz,  
an amount to reimburse his outlay for this to a maximum value of the above settlement 
figure including the applied  interest.
£140 as a disturbance allowance for two weeks of reinstatement work.
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If 
Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest due to Mr B, it should tell them how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a certificate  showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN96730265
Ref: DRN9673026