K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to Mr C. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  Tesco  sold Mr C the policy 
when he applied for the card on the internet.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr C and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
Looking at the evidence of the online application process at the time, I think Tesco 
made Mr C aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable for Mr Cs individual  
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
Mr C has said he wasnt  made  aware of the costs.  And I agree that, although Tesco  
gave some information about how to work  out the likely costs,  it wasnt as clear and full 
as it should have been. But I dont  think this failing is enough by itself to say the PPI 
was mis-sold. I dont think, in Mr Cs circumstances, full information  about costs and 
benefits would have affected  whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Tesco  has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ref: DRN93204772But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9320477