K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt do enough to help him 
when he fell victim to a scam. He feels Halifax could have done more to recover  his money  
from the scammer.
background
On 30 October 2018 Mr U made a payment of £1,100 to a company who had agreed to send 
him some car parts he wanted.
When Mr U didnt receive any goods  from the seller, and couldnt  get back in touch with 
them, he realised that hed actually made the payment to a scammer. Mr U contacted Halifax 
on 1 November 2018 to tell them what had happened, and to see if there was anything  they 
could do to help.  Halifax contacted the scammers bank straight away  to see if any of Mr Us 
money could be retrieved, but unfortunately the beneficiary bank confirmed  that none of 
Mr Us money  remained.
Mr U was unhappy with how Halifax handled things, so he referred  his complaint to us. One 
of our adjudicators looked at what had happened, he explained to Mr U that he felt Halifax 
had done all they could to try and help.
Mr U disagreed; he thinks that his case should be considered under new regulations  relating  
to these kinds of scams.  Hes also said he doesnt  feel Halifax, or our service, have taken 
account of the impact  this incident  had on his physical and mental health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account  relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what  I consider to be 
good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. When  Mr U 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead, and 
authorised it to be made. And I have  taken this into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
I have also considered that:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN90736742Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
And a banks responsibility to make additional  checks is particularly important in light of the 
environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years - 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr U when he made the payment of £1,100, or whether it should have done more  than it did. 
And having considered everything available  to me, I think it did process  the payment 
correctly. So, I dont  think it needs  to refund Mr U with the £1,100.  Ill explain why in more  
detail. 
Thinking carefully  about the payment Mr U made, and how he generally operated his 
account, I dont  think  there was anything sufficiently suspicious or unusual  about the 
payment of £1,100 that would have suggested  to Halifax that Mr U was being scammed.  The 
amount and payment type that Mr U made  wasnt particularly out of character for him. I say 
this because it wasnt unusual for him to make payments via the faster  payment  system, and 
the amount of this payment wasnt high enough to stand out among the other  transactions  
Mr U made  in the preceding months.
When Mr U told Halifax that hed been scammed it acted quickly, contacting the scammers 
bank to see if any of Mr Us money was still in the receiving account  and could be retrieved. 
Unfortunately, the scammer had already spent Mr Us money by the end of the day on 30 
October 2018, before Mr U contacted  Halifax to tell them of the scam. Mr U has noted  that 
the receiving bank told him they had fraud concerns about the account he had sent his 
money to, but theres nothing to suggest  that Halifax  would have known  that at the time the 
Ref: DRN90736743payment was made. And as this complaint looks only at the actions Halifax took here, I cant  
comment on anything the receiving bank may have done.
I want to acknowledge  that Mr U has been the victim of a convincing  scam and its 
unfortunate that he has lost out because  of it. I understand that this whole experience  will 
have been very frustrating  and upsetting for him and that whats  happened  has had a lasting 
impact on his physical  and mental  health. Im sorry for what  has happened to him and for the 
situation hes in. But in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly say that Halifax could 
have done more to prevent Mr U losing his money  or that it is now required to refund him the 
money he has lost. 
I understand that Mr U feels the new regulations relating to these types of scams should  be 
considered, but those  new regulations  only came  into effect  in May 2019, and they are not 
retrospective, so theyre not something  I am able to consider here. 
Ultimately, I cant  hold Halifax  responsible for Mr U having fallen victim to a scam,  and I think 
it did all they could  to help him once they knew what had happened. So, I dont think  it would 
be fair to ask Halifax to compensate Mr U for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073674