K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) has not settled 
her claim under  her employers group critical illness policy in full.
background
Ms N became a member of her employers  group  critical  illness policy  in March 2015. At the 
time, her level of critical  illness benefit was £100,000. In April 2016, Ms D increased her 
benefit level to £250,000,  and decreased  it to £200,000 in April 2017.
Ms N says she was formally diagnosed  with Multiple  Sclerosis (MS) in January 2018. She 
made a claim for critical illness  benefit. L&G considered her claim and on 10 July 2018, it 
said:
we will not pay benefit for any insured  condition  occurring  within  two years  of an insurer  
person joining the scheme or any increases in benefit that has resulted from any related 
condition for which they:
resulted from any Related Condition for which they:
have received treatment;
suffered symptoms of:
have sought  advice on; or
were aware of.
It went on to say the term above  applied because Ms Ns GP and consultant neurologist 
confirmed Ms N was diagnosed  with Optic Neuritis in 2011, and a MRI scan  at that time 
showed changes  in the brain consistent with a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. L&G said 
Ms N had also experienced symptoms in August 2017  within  two years of her benefit 
increase in April 2016.  L&G was satisfied  Ms N suffered symptoms related to MS and had 
made a claim for MS within  two years of increasing her benefit.  L&G accepted Ms N had a 
valid claim but limited her policy benefit  to £100,000  her benefit level prior to her increase 
in benefit.
L&G also went on to say Ms N was only eligible for a maximum benefit level of five times her 
P60 earnings in April 2017   which means  she could  only have claimed a maximum of 
around £209,000, rather  than the £250,000 benefit level Ms N selected.
In response, Ms N said she was formally diagnosed  in January 2018 and pointed out a 
number of errors within L&Gs letter. Ms N said the policy documents  didnt include the 
limitation of the benefit within two years of an increase in the benefit  level.
Ms N said the policy documents shed received didnt communicate the exclusion - the policy  
document available on her employers internal website  for staff was from 2011. Ms N says 
she is also due a refund for her policy April 2016-2017 policy  year as she paid for a 
£250,000 benefit level when she was entitled to around £209,000. Ms N only learned of the 
refund due when  she saw L&Gs  internal emails.  Unhappy with L&Gs  response, Ms N 
referred her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  asked L&G for the policy documentation in force when Ms N bought 
her policy in April 2017  the policy year in which she made her claim. L&G provided the 
policy documentation, including  the policy terms, schedule and appendix that was provided 
Ref: DRN99506252to the policyholder (which was Ms Ns employer). L&G said it was the responsibility of 
Ms Ns employer to provide any cover information  and policy documentation to its 
employees. L&G reiterated it wasnt responsible for the distribution of policy  documentation  
to members (like Ms N) insured through their employers. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Ns complaint, saying  the terms of Ms Ns policy said L&G 
wouldnt pay any increase  in benefit for an insured condition occurring within  two years of 
the increase. As Ms N was diagnosed  in January  2018, the benefit payable was the cover 
she had in January  2016   which was £100,000. Our investigator didnt recommend L&G 
pay anything further.
Ms N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said it was 
clear L&G accepted her claim on medical grounds. Ms N said her related condition  pre-dates 
her joining the scheme by several years. She also said she decreased  her benefit, and the 
policy wording only refers  to increases. So this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
L&G agreed Ms N was due a refund  of her additional premium, and says its arranged  for the 
refund to be sent to Ms Ns employer  and Ms N should discuss  the details of the refund 
with her employer. As this issue appears to be resolved, Ive not asked L&G to do anything  
further here.
Ms Ns claim for the increased benefit of £200,000
Ms N has already been paid £100,000 following  her claim for critical illness benefit. But her 
benefit level was £200,000 at the date of her claim and she wants  L&G to pay her an 
additional £100,000.
Ive reviewed the terms of Ms Ns policy, which applied  from 1 April 2017. The policy  is 
worded slightly differently  to L&Gs letter of 10 July 2018. The policy says:
5.Related Conditions Exclusions
(a)We will not pay benefit  for any insured condition occurring within two years  of an 
insured persons cover starting under  the scheme that has resulted from any 
related condition for which  they:
(i) have  received treatment,
(ii) suffered symptoms  of,
(iii) have  sought  advice  on, or
(iv)  were aware of.
For the above, the insured condition  may have directly or indirectly resulted from 
a related condition.  The decision as to whether  something  is a related condition 
Ref: DRN99506253will be based  on the opinion of a medical  adviser  chosen by us. A list of related 
conditions is shown in Part 4.
(b)The related  conditions exclusion shown in Part 2 Section 5 will also apply to any 
increase in benefit under the scheme from the day of the increase. For this 
purpose:
(i) references to benefit in the exclusion shall be read as the increase in 
benefit, and
(ii) references to the day an insured persons  cover started under the 
scheme shall be read as the day of the increase.
Part 4 of the policy  document lists Optic  Neuritis to be a related condition of MS, alongside  
numbness, difficulty of bladder control  and an abnormal MRI scan:
Part 4 Related conditions 
The conditions that apply as related conditions under Part 2, Section 5 will include  
those listed in this Part 4. In addition, a related condition  is any condition which we 
decide on the basis of medical evidence, to have contributed  to or increased the 
likelihood of the occurrence of an insured  condition.
Multiple sclerosis  with persisting symptoms 
Any form of neuropathy,  encephalopathy, or myelopathy including,  but not restricted  
to the following:  
abnormal sensation (numbness) of the extremities, trunk or face; weakness or 
clumsiness of a limb; double vision; partial  blindness; ocular  palsy; vertigo 
(dizziness); difficulty of bladder  control;  optic neuritis; spinal  cord lesion; abnormal 
MRI scan; retrobulbar neuritis.
I note Ms Ns consultant  neurologist wrote on 4 June 2018:
Thank you for requesting a medical report for this lady who is under the care of 
Neurology Department at St Peters Hospital for multiple sclerosis  which  was 
diagnosed in November of last year, but suspected since  her first attack  of optic 
neuritis in 2011.  She had an MRI scan  at that time that showed changes in the brain  
consistent with diagnosis of multiple sclerosis but it could not be made at the time 
because there was no dissemination of the disease.
In the intervening six years, her brain  MRI have not changed  but she had developed 
persistent though mild motor and sensory  symptoms in her legs with some limitation 
of her mobility over longer distances.  These  have been persistent for more than six 
months and will now be permanent. Currently she does not qualify for disease 
modifying therapies  and she is on no specific  treatment.
I can confirm that this patient has not been  diagnosed with certainty previously, there 
was suspected following her attack of optic neuritis  in 2011.
So I think Part 4 of the policy,  as quoted above,  applies  as Ms Ns consultant diagnosed her 
with MS  with persisting  symptoms. So the question for me to consider is whether I think 
Ref: DRN99506254L&G was reasonable to say Ms Ns MS has directly or indirectly resulted from a related 
condition. If her MS resulted directly  or indirectly, say, Optic  Neuritis, abnormal sensations  or 
weakness in her limbs or an abnormal MRI scan, then its entitled to exclude any increase in 
benefit made within the preceding two years.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Ms N was aware of her Optic  Neuritis diagnosis  in 2011. 
I also noted her MRI in 2011 showed changes  in her brain consistent with a MS diagnosis. 
Ms Ns consultant neurologist wrote on 4 January 2018:
I am writing to let you know that this lady has now had her new MRI scan  and I have 
compared it with the Maidstone  scan from 2011.  Both show  changes which would  be 
consistent with a diagnosis of multiple  sclerosis, but interestingly in the intervening 
six years  there does not appear to have been  any progression of the lesion load.
I think the evidence  from Ms Ns consultant neurologist suggests her MS is related to her 
Optic Neuritis, diagnosed  in 2011,  and the abnormal MRI she had shortly  after.  I also note 
Ms Ns consultant neurologist said the following in March 2018:
For her upper limbs, she has weakness  in both elbows and on both forearms down 
to the hands with intermittent episodes of tingling and loss of sensation. Occasionally 
she experiences  sharp sensation in these areas
For many  years, she has had bladder symptoms of frequency, urgency, with latch  
key incontinence.
This further  evidences Ms N had suffered related conditions,  as listed under  Part 4 of the 
policy, which relate to her diagnosis of MS. Taking all of the evidence  into account, I think 
L&Gs decision that her MS resulted from related  conditions was a reasonable one. So, L&G 
is entitled to limit Ms Ns claim to £100,000  because she was diagnosed within two years of 
her increasing the level of benefit  under the policy.
It wouldnt have made  any difference to the level of benefit Ms N would have  been  eligible 
for had she not increased her benefit level in April 2016 or 2017. If she hadnt  increased it, 
Ms N would still have been able to claim the £100,000 benefit level L&G has offered her. 
I have noted Ms N says the policy refers only to increases, and she decreased her cover  in 
April 2017. But I dont  think  that her decreasing cover alters  the relevance  of the exclusion 
quoted above, as it remains the fact she increased  her cover in April 2016. Ive also noted 
Ms N said her employer provided out of date policy documents. And whilst  I sympathise if 
this is the case,  this isnt something I would  hold L&G liable for, as it was her employers 
responsibility to pass  on up to date information  to its employees. 
my final decision
I realise my decision is likely to disappoint Ms N, but for the reasons explained above, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN99506255Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9950625