K821x#15complaint
Mr E and Mrs E are unhappy that Commitments  Protection Limited (CPL) havent updated 
them about  a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) claim theyve made.  After  they had paid 
them.
For ease of reading I will refer only to Mr E in my decision.
background
Mr E said he asked  CPL to make  a PPI claim on his behalf. But after paying over £2000  to 
CPL he hasnt heard anything about  his claim. And he cant  get a response form CPL when 
he calls.
In 2017, CPL said Mr E had agreed  for them to carry out a Full Financial  Review,  and this 
included a review  of his mortgage. They said a welcome email  and the mortgage  review 
report were sent to him in September 2017, and this included  an opinion  about Mr Es 
mortgage. CPL said Mr E agreed that they should take forward a Mortgage  Review 
Assessment on his behalf. CPL said they had emailed Mr E and sent him a letter of 
authority (LOA) to sign in May 2018. CPL said Mr E hadnt returned the LOA.  
Mr Es understanding was that CPL had been pursuing a PPI claim for him. And said theyd 
not done the work, so didnt justify the fees hed paid. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator found CPL had administered Mr Es Single Premium Mortgage  Payment  
Protection (SPMPPI) policy and would have known that there wasnt any possibility of a 
claim for this being successful. He said CPL should refund Mr E for the fees hed paid of 
£820 and £714 and apply  8% simple interest  to this from the date of payment. He also said 
CPL should  pay Mr E £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
CPL accepted Mr E should have been told that compensation  couldnt  be claimed as this 
wasnt regulated  at the time he took it out. They agreed to refund Mr E for the fees hed paid 
and offered £100 for trouble and upset.  But said Mr E should cover  the cost of the mortgage 
review report, £250.
Mr E didnt agree to this offer so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr E recalls  a meeting he had with a CPL consultant. He said the meeting lasted about  one 
to two hours.  And he said it was about making  a PPI claim against his mortgage lender Ill 
call A. He said the consultant left him with some paperwork  which  he said he found 
confusing.
Mr E has shown  that he made several payments to CPL. In June 2017, a payment of £919, 
in August 2017, a payment of £714. And Ive seen  a receipt sent by CPL,  that shows  an 
Ref: DRN91208652appointment with CPL for 11 September 2017 with a payment of £820.  So, I can understand 
why Mr E thinks  hes paid in excess of £2,000 in fees.
What I need to determine is what  Mr E understood these payments to be for and whether 
CPL had been fair and reasonable in their actions with Mr E.
CPL has said that their initial agreement is for a Full Financial Review to be done. Having 
looked at CPLs terms of business they charge a subscription fee of £820 inclusive of VAT 
for this. Following which there is a Mortgage Review  assessment, with a report that 
provides an opinion of the likely  success of a claim. This incurs a charge of £595 plus VAT, 
in total £714. And their customers then have  the choice whether to pursue a claim. And if 
they do, an agreement for a solicitor to consider the likely success of such a claim is based  
on a No Win No Fee.
Mr E said CPL cold called  him and an appointment was arranged with one of their 
consultants. As our investigator has shown, CPL knew  Mr Es details as they had 
administered a SPMPPI policy he had.
Both CPL and Mr Es records show  a payment was made, CPL has recorded this as being 
£820, made through Worldpay. But Mr Es bank statements  show a different amount  £919.
But I have seen a receipt, dated 26 June 2017,  signed by Mr E and CPLs consultant, Ill call 
MR that Mr E paid £820  and another £99 upfront fee for the Solicitor  in a Briefcase 
option. And Mr E paid this in full by debit card. So, I think  this shows  that Mr E had his first 
meeting with CPL in June 2017.  And this document was the paperwork Mr E has referred to.
CPL has sent details of their standard welcome  email which  they say would have been sent 
to Mr E, but they havent  shown what date this was sent. It says:
Your Welcome Pack, which includes your Mortgage Review,  will be sent in the next 7-10 
days after we receive your Expert Witnesss Opinion of your Mortgage Review We will be 
working with you over the next 12 months  and anticipate working around 1.5 hrs per month 
on covering your Full Personal Review. If you add to this the Agents time in travel, giving 
their advice and administration of your review, it all adds  up to good  value for your money.  
So, I think Mr E met with MR in June 2017  when a payment was taken - £820 for CPL and 
£99 for Solicitor in a Briefcase. I havent seen any evidence that Mr E was sent his 
Mortgage  Review Assessment  or an opinion report in the time stated above. And in 
August 2017,  Mr E paid a further £714,  but Ive not seen any record of what Mr E was told, 
at the time, this fee was for.
But I can see that  CPL ,sent  an email,  10 September 2017 to Mr E headed  Urgent  CPL 
Mortgage Assessment . And this said that following a telephone call with Mr E hed opted for 
a Full Personal  Review. And:
More specifically the Mortgage Review, we have built a report that outlines potential  
breaches within the Mortgage Conduct of Business rulings (MCOB)
And went on to explain  there was a charge of £595  plus VAT. But Mr E had already paid this 
fee back in August 2017.
Ref: DRN91208653I can see this was followed the next day by a Full Personal Review  Welcome  e-mail  with 
similar wording  to that in the undated  email outlined above. With this email was a receipt 
saying appointment  date 11 September  2017, the consultant was noted as MR  and it was 
for £820. And the mortgage assessment report was also attached  to the email.  The report  
makes comment  that its a draft made in September 2017.
So, Mr E had already  made both his payments before  he had the mortgage report. And I 
think this was identified  by CPL in September 2017.  The receipt said it was for an 
appointment dated 11 September 2017.  But I think this receipt was for the payment Mr E 
made in June 2017. And would explain why CPL only has a record of payments being made 
in June and August 2017, and not one for September 2017. And why Mr E thought  hed paid 
over £2,000.
Mr E has maintained throughout his account  that he thought  CPL was pursuing a PPI claim 
for him. I have looked at the paperwork that was left with Mr E by MR. And this says:
We will look at all potential claims and apply for references on loans, credit cards and 
mortgages you have  had and look for as many potential claims as possible for you over the 
next 12 to 18 months.
And Mr E paid £714, a fee CPL said was his agreement to a mortgage  mis-selling  claim and 
would have agreed to after Mr E had seen his mortgage review report. But Mr E didnt  get 
this report until September 2017, after hed paid the fee. So, I think this supports Mr Es 
understanding that the fees he was paying werent  about a mis-sold mortgage,  but for PPI 
claims. The welcome email also says:
We would like to make it clear that CPL over the next 12 months will be considering any 
additional complaints including PPI and any other  policies or products or lending  
overcharges that may have been  applied or mis-sold
Taking all the above into account Im persuaded Mr E understood CPL to be handling a PPI 
claim for him
CPL was the administrator of the SPMPPI policy that was sold to Mr E. And would have 
known that any compensation claims for SPMPPI policies taken out before 2005,  as was the 
case here, couldnt be considered. 
Without having a record of the discussions that Mr M had with MR,  CPLs consultant, I 
think Mr E, from the information  he had would have, thought CPL was only pursuing  a PPI 
claim related to his mortgage. And not a claim about his mortgage  product being mis-sold or 
any other products.  And I cant see that Mr E was told any SPMPPI claim wouldnt be 
successful by CPL. Neither is it mentioned in any of the emails Ive seen.
So, I think CPL should  refund  both fees totalling  £1,534, as I dont  think Mr E would have 
paid these fees if hed been  told his PPI claim wouldnt be successful. And I think  by offering 
a refund to Mr E, CPL has accepted this. Ive not included the fee for the Solicitor  in a 
Briefcase option as this looks to be a separate legal expenses policy.  
It isnt our role to punish a business,  but where  we think  something has gone  wrong,  as is 
the case here, we would look to put the consumer back into the position  they would have 
been. And for Mr E the money hed paid in fees wasnt available  to him to use or invest. So, I 
agree with our investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to this amount  from 
Ref: DRN91208654the date it was paid to the date of CPLs settlement. And Id expect this payment to be made 
within a reasonable amount of time from my decision  Id consider this to be within 28 days.
Mr E has said he hasnt  been kept updated about  what CPL were doing  for him. And I think 
this would have  been upsetting especially given the fees Mr E had paid. So, I agree with our 
investigator that Mr E should be compensated  £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Mr E didnt get the promised report until after hed paid the fees .So, I dont think he 
benefitted or got any value from the report.  So, I dont think CPL can charge for its 
production.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  And ask Commitment Protection  Limited  to:
refund  Mr E £1534 for the fees hed paid;  
add *8% simple interest from the date he paid the fees to the date 
Commitment Protection Limited  refund his payments and;
pay £250 for trouble and upset
*If Commitments Protection Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9120865