K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Paragon Finance PLC  trading as Idem Servicing  (Idem)  have failed  
to constructively engage with her legal representative regarding the enforceability  of a debt.
background
Mrs B owed a debt on her credit  card, which was sold by the original creditor  to Idem in 
2012, where they took over collecting the monthly  repayments. Mrs B continued making 
payments until 2018, at which  point she appointed  a legal representative  to act on her behalf 
in matters relating  to the debt.
Mrs Bs representative wrote to Idem requesting documentation about the debt, such as the 
credit agreement upon which it was based. Idem were initially  unable to provide a copy of 
the credit  agreement and wrote to Mrs Bs representative informing them  of this in 
August 2018.  The legal representative considered that the debt was unenforceable, so they 
said Mrs B would be making no further  payments  until they received the information they had 
requested. They also said that Idem should  cease any further collection activities  and 
requested that they no longer contact Mrs B directly.
Idem eventually located a copy of the credit agreement and sent this to Mrs Bs 
representative on 24 October 2018. And they said that they would continue to contact Mrs B 
directly to recover the debt  notwithstanding  the terms upon  which the representative had 
been retained  which  they said related solely  to complaints in any event.
Mrs B complained as Idem continued to contact her directly, despite appointing a legal 
representative to deal with the matter on her behalf.  She says they have contacted her by phone 
and letter a few times  a month, and that she has asked that they only contact her representative. 
Idem said that Mrs Bs representative  was not assisting them with collecting repayments,  and 
neither were  they willing to put a repayment  plan in place,  which  was why they continued  to 
contact Mrs B directly. But Mrs Bs representative says that Idem have refused to engage 
with them  and their requests  for information,  and that Mrs B would not be agreeing to any 
payment plan until the necessary information  about the debt has been provided. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Idem to 
pursue Mrs B for the debt,  as her representative had failed to discuss  repayment terms. 
Mrs B disagreed, so the matter was passed  to me to determine.  
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2019, where I said I was 
intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and set out the following findings:
Mrs Bs representatives have provided  a copy of the authority she gave them in July 2018,  
which sets out the scope  of the matters  in which she has asked them  to act on her behalf:
I/We confirm that [Mrs Bs representative]  is instructed to act on my/our behalf 
for any and all purposes in connection with providing  and obtaining  information  to 
credit agreements taken out by me/us  and communicating  with third parties on 
my/our behalf  in relation to those credit  agreements and in relation to any 
financial claims arising under those  credit agreements.
Ref: DRN95374962Idem submit  that this authority extends  only to complaints made by Mrs B. But I do not agree 
that it is limited solely to complaints, as she has given authority for her representatives to act 
on her behalf in relation  to any financial  claims  arising under [the] credit agreement. So I 
consider that the scope of Mrs Bs authority extends to the collection of the debt as well as 
any potential complaints arising  from it. So I do not think it is appropriate in these 
circumstances for Idem  or their agents  to circumvent Mrs Bs properly appointed legal 
representatives to contact her directly.  I therefore intend asking Idem to cease any further 
contact with Mrs B directly, and to direct them to deal solely  with her legal representatives for 
as long as they have  her authority and are retained to act on her behalf in these matters.
I appreciate that Mrs Bs representatives may not have been willing to discuss repayment  
options with Idem. But I do not think it is reasonable for Idem  to subsequently ignore Mrs Bs 
wishes to be represented in this matter simply because they have a disagreement  with her 
representatives. And I do not find it surprising that her representatives were not prepared to 
discuss repayment options when the validity of the debt is ultimately in question, and when 
they are requesting information to this end. Mrs Bs representatives say that Idem have 
failed to provide  the information  theyve  requested.  For example  they say they have never 
been sent a copy of the notice of assignment, despite requesting it on multiple occasions. 
Ive considered Idems  regulatory obligations  in this regard, which can be found in the 
Consumer Credit source book (CONC) 7.13.5  in the regulators handbook of rules  and 
guidance, which sets out:
A firm should ensure (subject  to any legal requirements) that adequate and 
accurate information  it holds about  a customer in relation to a debt is made 
available to persons involved on its behalf  in the debt recovery process. 
Information relating  to the customer which should be made available  to agents 
or employees includes, for example:

(5) having a representative acting on the customers behalf
So if Idem have failed to make information available (such as the notice of assignment) as 
alleged by Mrs Bs representatives,  then I would also consider this to be a clear  failing of 
their obligations  under CONC 7.13.5.  As such,  Idem should use their best endeavours to 
respond to any reasonable requests for information  made by Mrs Bs representatives in 
relation to the debt. 
And as outlined above, I do not consider that they have acted fairly or reasonably  by 
contacting Mrs B directly  in relation to the debt when she has specifically appointed 
representatives to speak on her behalf in these matters. Mrs B has said that Idems  actions 
have caused her distress  and anxiety, so I also intend asking them  to pay £100 
compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset their actions have caused.
I invited further comments  from both the parties.  Mrs B did not provide  any response,  but 
Idem disagreed with the decision. In summary, they submit:
They fully complied  with Mrs Bs legal representatives request and do not believe they 
have failed  to comply with any request for information;
Mrs Bs appointed representative is a public access barrister, who may only simply advise 
her in relation to any potential dispute but may not have the conduct of that dispute. 
Ref: DRN95374963Barristers do not enjoy the same general exemption from undertaking authorised 
activities that applies to solicitors. Mrs Bs barrister  is undertaking a regulated activity 
(debt adjusting) but is not authorised to do so, which is why they have been continuing 
to engage directly with Mrs B.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
First, in terms of whether information  was made  readily  available  to Mrs Bs representative, I 
said in my provisional decision that this would be a failing of Idems obligations IF they failed 
to make such information available. Based on their recent submissions, I appreciate  that 
Idem appear to have complied with the requests for documentation  made  to them.  However, 
this does not change the outcome  or proposals  set out previously in my provisional decision.
Idem say that Mrs Bs representative is a public access barrister and may only advise her in 
relation to a dispute and may not have the conduct of that dispute. But I do not agree. Mrs B is 
entitled to instruct  a public access barrister directly  for advice as well as representation. And 
the mandate she has signed authorises  her representative to act on her behalf  in this regard. 
Idem say that Mrs Bs representative  as a barrister   does not enjoy the same  exemption 
from authorisation that applies to solicitors, yet he is undertaking  the regulated activity of 
debt adjusting given  the way he has engaged with them.  As they do not believe him to be 
authorised to conduct such  matters, they have  continued to correspond with Mrs B directly.  
Debt adjusting is a designated regulated activity by The Financial Services  and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities)  (Amendment)  (No.2)  Oder 2013  and is set out in article 39D.  
However, as a regulated activity, it is also subject to exclusions. Idem submit that this 
exemption applies only to solicitors. But as well as solicitors, article  39K sets out:
(1)There are excluded  from articles 39Dactivities carried on by 
(a)a barrister or advocate acting in that capacity
Given that Mrs Bs representative is a barrister acting in that capacity  for her in relation to 
her dispute  with Idem, he is excluded under article 39K. Therefore, I still consider he is 
entitled to represent Mrs B in this regard, and that Idem  have acted unreasonably by 
circumventing her representative to contact her directly. So I will still be directing Idem to 
deal only with Mrs Bs barrister while she is represented, and to pay £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by failing to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Paragon Finance  PLC to:
Cease any further contact with Mrs B directly and to deal solely with her legal 
representative in relation  to the matters  she has authorised  them to act on her behalf,  
for as long as they have her authority and are retained  to act on her behalf;
Ref: DRN95374964Pay £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9537496