K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
Background
In October  2017 Mr M acquired car costing £7,480 which was funded  by a deposit of £2,000  
and the balance by a conditional sale agreement. It was some four years old and had done 
approximately 109,000 miles.
A few days  after taking delivery Mr M identified 10 issues and took the car back  to the 
dealer. It carried out repairs, but Mr M says not everything was fixed.  He took the car back 
again, but despite being told the heating  had been  repaired he didnt think this had been 
successful. He also notified Santander of the issues within a few days  of buying the car. 
He contacted Santander again to notify it the heating hadnt  been fixed  and there was a 
problem with the handbrake. The handbrake was repaired and a garage recommend  by the 
dealer carried out repairs  to the heating.
Mr M complained about delays and Santander paid £50 compensation. In March 2018  Mr M 
raised other  issues about the car with Santander,  including  brakes,  tyres,  exterior  lights, 
brake fluid, air conditioning and timing belt. Santander felt that these were wear  and tear 
issues and noted  the car had high mileage  at sale. Mr M obtained  a diagnostic from an 
approved dealer which recommended a replacement  thermostat  as the engine was losing 
operating temperature.
Santander accepted the air conditioning was an issue and it paid for a thermostat to be 
replaced. However, Santander  missed the second page of the invoice until several months  
later. It paid the remainder and also paid £100  compensation  for the oversight  the ensuing  
delay.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said that many of the issues raised  by 
Mr M were wear and tear matters to be expected on a car with such a high mileage. She 
also noted he had been able to make use of it driving 7,700 miles in the first year and 8,415 
in the second. She said repairs had been  undertaken at no cost to Mr M and while there  had 
been some  delays on Santanders part she didnt think it had been unhelpful. She thought 
the compensation it had paid of £150 to be fair. 
She didnt  think it reasonable for the car to be rejected. Mr M didnt  agree  and said the early 
repairs hadnt been successful especially to the heating  which  he said still wasnt working  
properly. He said the thermostat had been  replaced several times.  He thought Santander  
has mislaid some of the invoices and our investigator did some more  work to try and obtain 
further evidence.  One of the garages involved  had suffered fire and so it didnt have  any 
paperwork. A second confirmed it had done work in December and had repaired the heating.  
Santander confirmed  it would pay for repairs to the heating; apparently  Mr M had refused  
this offer as he wished  to reject the car. Our investigators said she thought  it fair that 
Santander pay for the repair  to the heating, but she wasnt persuaded that rejection was 
merited. 
Ref: DRN98164732My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr M bought  a high mileage car and it was to be expected there would be wear  and tear 
issues. Many of those issues were addressed by the garage or by Santander. The central  
issue appear to be the heating  and it is not clear  what is the cause of the problem. A garage 
said it had repaired it in December though  Mr M maintains it isnt working properly.
I dont have an independent report to help me reach a conclusion, but my view is that the 
heating alone  is not sufficient to merit rejection. I appreciate Mr M feels several repairs  have  
been attempted and the problem remains,  but the evidence  is sketchy  and I think some of 
the work  related to the heating was done, but not necessarily all. For example the servicing  
of the air conditioning may be related to the heating, but I dont consider that to have  been  
an unsuccessful repair.
Although there may have  been some delays on Santanders part between it and the dealer I 
think efforts have been made to assist  Mr M and to endeavour  to fix a number of faults. I 
consider most of these to be wear  and tear matters and therefore  not the responsibility of 
Santander.
Santander has said it will cover the cost of repairing the heating  and I believe  that offer 
remains open. I consider  that to be fair and reasonable.  I appreciate Mr M had refused that 
offer as he wished to reject the car, but he may now wish to reconsider.
Finally, I would add that I consider the compensation paid by Santander to reflect the delays 
is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN98164733My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
14 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9816473