K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a 
packaged bank  account, called a FlexPlus account, in 2017.
Mr R paid a monthly fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. Hes 
told us that he used some of these benefits, but thinks that Nationwide should  refund him two 
thirds of the fees he paid, plus interest. He also thinks that Nationwide  was rude to him during 
a phone discussion when  he first raised his complaint, and would like compensation for this. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt think  that 
Nationwide mis-sold the FlexPlus account to him, or was rude to him. 
Mr R didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Rs case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr R and Nationwide have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Before Mr R bought  the FlexPlus  account,  he had only banked with Nationwide  for a relatively 
short period.  I gather  that he first opened  one of Nationwides fee-free accounts in 2015 and 
then switched to the FlexPlus  account  in 2017.  I understand that he switched accounts  online. 
The potential benefits of the account  included travel insurance, car breakdown  cover, mobile 
phone insurance  and fee-free use of cash machines while  abroad. During our investigation 
into this complaint, Mr R has raised concerns about some of the insurance benefits 
themselves, as well as about the way Nationwide sold him the account. So I would like to 
clarify that in this decision I have only considered the way Nationwide  sold the account to 
Mr R, along with his comments that Nationwide was rude to him. We have assessed Mr Rs 
other concerns separately.
As Mr R bought the FlexPlus  account online, it seems  very unlikely to me that Nationwide  
recommended the account to him personally.  But it still had to give him a fair choice about  
buying the account and explain the accounts costs and benefits  to him fairly and clearly,  so 
he could decide  if he wanted to buy it. 
As Mr R already had a fee-free account  with Nationwide, and I havent seen anything  to 
make me think that it told him he had to change accounts, Im satisfied that Nationwide gave 
Mr R a choice to keep  his fee-free account  if he wanted. 
Ref: DRN91021712Although I havent  seen  the exact online  screens that Mr R saw when he bought the account  
in 2017, which may have  been different to those in current use, it seems  highly likely to me 
that they would have  described the main benefits of the account. After  all, Nationwide  was 
trying to sell the FlexPlus account  to its customers and it was in its own interests to explain 
what they could  obtain from it. 
Similarly, as the charges  for the account  would  appear on Mr Rs bank  statements,  and in 
other information Nationwide sent him about  the account, I doubt that Nationwide  tried to 
hide them from him. I think Nationwides system would  have told Mr R how much  the 
FlexPlus account would cost. 
After buying the account, Mr R went  on to use the car breakdown cover and has also 
mentioned that he wanted travel insurance  (indeed, his related complaint concerns  changes 
to the charges for this insurance), so I think its likely that Mr R chose to buy the account for 
these benefits.  I also understand  that in 2017 Mr R was eligible for the travel insurance  and 
was not affected  by the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.  I dont think  that 
Nationwide mis-sold the FlexPlus account to Mr R. 
Turning now to Mr Rs comments that Nationwide was rude to him during his phone  call 
when he first raised his complaint. 
Rudeness can, of course, be subjective and opinions on it vary depending on tone of voice,  
intent, context and the words used. In this case, if I thought that the way Nationwide  handled 
Mr Rs call had led him lose out financially (for example, if it had misled him about something  
which directly  caused  him to incur unnecessary expense ), then I would tell it what to do to 
put things right. I have listened  to a recording of the phone  call and I havent heard anything 
from Nationwide which would lead me to think that Mr R lost out due to something it said,  or 
didnt say. So I cant tell Nationwide to give Mr R any money back. 
I wont comment further on the style or tone of the call itself, but if Mr R wishes, he may be 
able to request  a copy of the call recording from Nationwide. However, I cant  advise him 
about this or comment on how Nationwide may respond.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint about Nationwide  
Building Society, I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9102171