K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly 
continued to applying charges to his overdraft when  he was in financial difficulty.
Background and my provisional decision of 16 June 2021
I issued a provisional decision, where  I set out why I was intending to partially uphold  this 
complaint, on 16 June 2021,. 
Essentially, I thought  that, by October  2015,  it was evident the use of this overdraft had 
become unsustainable. A cursory look at the statements leading up to the renewal in 
showed there hadnt been a credit  balance on the account for an extended period. Given just 
how much  the account was overdrawn  and how long it had been  since itd been since a 
credit balance, it ought to have been  apparent that the facility was unlikely to be able to 
repaid within  a reasonable period of time with overdraft interest, fees and associated  
charges being  added. And I thought  that Halifax ought to have taken corrective  action in 
relation to this overdraft.
Since my provisional decision, weve been able to add Mrs M to the complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Halifax responded to say it didnt agree with my 
provisional decision as it didnt take into account all of Mr Ms accounts. And it provided 
statements on other accounts held.
Mr and Mrs M also responded confirming their acceptance of my provisional decision and 
they didnt provide anything further for me to think about. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties  for their responses. Ive considered the content of the further statements 
and income analysis Halifax has provided. But while I accept they show  additional funds they 
show funds sufficient enough to have cleared the overdraft at the time I thought Halifax  
ought to have taken corrective action in relation  to this overdraft. 
Given this is the case  and it also remains the case that this account  hadnt seen a credit  
balance for an extended  period and it clearly  wasnt being used for short-term emergency  
borrowing as Halifax itself says it should have been, I remain satisfied that Halifax should 
have taken corrective action in relation to this overdraft in October  2015.  
So having  carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision, Im still upholding 
this complaint and Halifax  should put things right. 
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs M.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  for Halifax to do the following:
Ref: DRN95252712Rework Mr and Mrs Ms overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2015  onwards  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mr and Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on           
Mr and Mrs Ms credit file, it should backdate this to October 2015.
OR
If the effect  of removing all interest,  fees and charges  results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding  balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments  
and returned to Mr and Mrs M along  with 8% simple interest  on the 
overpayments from the date they were  made  (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding  balance remains after all adjustments  have been 
made, then Halifax should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit file.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Bank  of Scotland  
plc should put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9525271