K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim she 
made under her car insurance policy. Miss Ms car was stolen.
background
Miss M reported her car as stolen  to the police  and her insurer, Ageas at the end of 
September 2018. 
Miss Ms car was later recovered by police. It had been damaged, but was repairable. After  
investigation, Ageas told Miss M it wouldnt meet her claim. It said cover was excluded  
because Ageas believed the information Miss M had provided  was false and shed 
misrepresented the facts  when she made  her claim.  
Miss M asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Ageas had acted  
reasonably. 
Miss M didnt agree. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms policy with Ageas says it will exclude cover if it believes a claim has been  fully or 
partially made under the following circumstances:
- by providing false information in order to influence  us to accept a claim;
- by exaggerating the amount of the claim;  or
- by supplying false or invalid documents in support of a claim.
Miss M reported the incident to Ageas the day after she said her car had been stolen 
overnight. She reported the theft to the police on the same day. 
A couple of days later  on 1 October  2018 - Miss M spoke to Ageas. Ageass claim notes 
read:
1 key on purchase  and 1 now. Insured doesnt  know where other  key was as not 
provided when  purchased.
On 3 October 2018 Ageas contacted Miss M to discuss the claim further  as a police officer 
dealing with the theft told it Miss M said she had a second key but couldnt find it. Ageas 
asked Miss M if there was anything further  she wanted  to tell it. Miss M didnt tell Ageas 
about the second key.
Miss M called Ageas back later the same day and explained that although she received only 
one key when  she bought  the car from a garage  a second key was recently  provided to her 
for her car. Miss M told Ageas she didnt know where the second  key now was. Ageas notes 
read:
Insured thinks the key has now been stolen.  
Ref: DRN96855092On 24 October 2018 Ageas called Miss M to tell her it wouldnt  meet  her claim.  Its notes  
read:
Called insured,  confirmed the spare key starts the car - this means  the main  key 
would have been used to steal the vehicle, this is the key ph (policyholder)  failed to 
tell us about until we were  tipped  off by police, as insured has provided answers to 
our questions which are dishonest, inaccurate  or misleadingly we are unable to 
consider the claim  as per policy wording
Ageas has provided  a copy  of the receipt  for the second key. This is dated two weeks before 
the theft took place.
Miss M says that it shouldnt matter that the police contacted  Ageas   or when she got a 
second key for her car. She says the fact is her car was stolen. She believes she told Ageas 
the truth and was honest - but she doesnt remember  the phone  calls as she was in shock 
and upset that her car had been stolen. 
However, it was two days after the theft - during a second call - when it seems  Miss M told 
Ageas she had one key for her car. And as a second key was provided two weeks  before the 
theft, I think this is something that happened very recently and would be fresh in Miss Ms 
mind when Ageas asked  her about how many  keys she had for her car. So I think Miss M 
provided Ageas with an initial  account which appears to differ from the account  she gave the 
police. 
When Ageas  told Miss M it rejected  her claim,  Miss M told Ageas  that she thought  she put 
the second key in a bag but never  used it. When she noticed  her car was missing  she looked  
in the bag for the key. She wrote:
once my [car] was noticed  missing  I went into this bag and the key was not there and I cant  
remember where I had my one key which I could find. 
So I think  from Miss Ms account   that she was aware that the second  key was potentially  
missing at the point  when  she realised her car had been stolen. I therefore agree with Ageas 
that from the information it had, Miss M provided  inconsistent accounts.
I think its a reasonable  expectation for the owner  of a car to take care of the keys while in 
their possession. After all, the key is the easiest  way to steal a car. And Ageas policy  says it 
will not meet  a theft claim if Miss Ms car has been  stolen  unless the circumstances meet 
certain conditions, of which one says;
When no one is in it, unless all its windows, doors, roof openings or hood  are closed 
and locked and all keys or devices needed to lock the car are with you or the person 
authorised to use the car
I know this isnt the reason why Ageas rejected Miss Ms claim. But this is why Ageas asked 
Miss M the questions it did. And while I understand Miss M is unhappy about this, I think 
Ageas was entitled to make reasonable enquiries  while it investigated Miss Ms claim  to 
see if Miss Ms claim  was covered under her policy. It isnt enough to say that because 
Miss M reported her car as stolen;  the insurer should therefore meet the claim  if the 
circumstances of the theft mean  the claim is excluded.  It is for Miss M to prove  her claim. 
Ref: DRN96855093I realise Miss M will be very disappointed  with my decision. But based on what  Ive seen, I 
think Ageas  properly investigated  the claim. And I think its decision to reject Miss Ms claim 
for repairs to her car is reasonable. This means  I dont think  it should do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685509