K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that an adviser  acting for Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd, now 
Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited  gave him unsuitable advice to switch an existing 
pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in order  to invest  in a Harlequin property-
based investment.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint in October  2020.   I set out in that provisional 
decision why I thought we could consider this complaint, why I thought the complaint should 
be upheld, and what Quilter should do to put things right.  A copy  of my provisional decision 
(with a few minor corrections and amendments to preserve  anonymity)  is annexed to this 
decision and incorporated into it.
As in my provisional decision I will refer to the firm as Positive Solutions when talking about 
the time of the events in the complaint and the early part of the complaint, and Quilter when 
referring to the more  recent past and the present.
Mr F agrees with my provisional decision.  Quilter does not.  It has made  several points 
including the following:
The property was not completed in 2011  as it should have been, or even by 2013.  
This, taken with the UK sales  arm of Harlequin  being investigated for fraud  should  
reasonably have made Mr F aware  he had cause  to complain before February 2014.
In a similar complaint with similar facts  it was decided that the complaint was time 
barred.
Copies of all correspondence  should be obtained from Mr F to see what  he did know.
Investors were being contacted by claims chasers from 2013 onwards.  
If it is not decided  the complaint is time barred there should be a hearing.
The fact the adviser  had Positive Solutions stationery for the business he was 
authorised to do does  not mean  he gave  any of it to Mr F or in any way represented 
himself as acting on behalf  of Positive  Solutions  when  providing any advice or 
services in connection with this matter.
The adviser has stated he was very clear, and Mr F fully understood, that he was not 
giving any regulated advice or acting on behalf of Positive Solutions.   
Quilter does not see how it can be concluded that Mr Fs version of events is correct 
without any documentary evidence  to support it, and an oral hearing  would provide 
an opportunity to fully consider these matters  and cross examine the parties involved.
I wrote  to Quilter on 15 December 2020 to explain that it is my view that an oral hearing is 
not necessary  in this case in order to fairly determine it.  I said the existence of a dispute of 
facts does not by itself mean that an oral hearing must as a matter  of fairness be held.  An 
oral hearing  need  only be held where  the dispute  cannot fairly be resolved  without  hearing  
oral evidence.  I said the main theme of Quilters  request is the desire  to cross examine 
witnesses.  I considered that the points in issue can fairly be determined on the basis of the 
evidence in the case and the submissions that have  been made.
In that letter  I pointed out that I had issued my provisional decision and that both parties had 
been given the opportunity to respond and so I would proceed with my consideration of the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN99210872Quilter remains  of the view that a hearing  should  be held.  
Quilter says that having reviewed the file it thinks from the available  contemporaneous 
evidence the only fair and reasonable explanation  is that Mr M was acting on an execution  
only basis for Mr F.  So notwithstanding the point that Mr M was not acting on behalf of 
Positive Solutions it should not be responsible for Mr Fs decision to invest.
Quilter says Mr Fs case is that he was given  negligent advice by Mr F to invest  in Harlequin.  
It says the only documentary evidence showing Mr Fs involvement is the SIPP  application.  
This confirms Mr F was acting  as an IFA to establish  the SIPP but it does not prove that any 
advice or personal  recommendation  was made  to Mr F.  
Quilter says Mr F was not required  to keep records if no advice  was given.  Quilter also says 
Mr M had said:
As such it was [the Harlequin agent] who asked me to set up the SIPP  for [Mr F].  
[Mr F] was not seeking any advice  he simply wanted me to set up a SIPP  for him.
Quilter thinks  the execution only explanation is just as credible as Mr Fs version of events 
given the lack of documentary  evidence.  And the lack of such documentary evidence  makes 
a hearing more important.
Quilter cannot see what advice Mr M would have  given  since  Rowanmoor was the only SIPP  
provider that would  accept the Harlequin  investments  at the time.  Mr  M only followed Mr Fs 
instructions to set up a SIPP  that would accept  the investment Mr F wanted to make.
Quilter says the purpose of a hearing  is not to allow  the arguments to be presented, but to 
allow the ombudsman  and the parties to test the evidence.  And without  doing  so it is 
impossible for the ombudsman service to take any reasonable view on how credible such 
evidence is.
Quilter says in another case involving this same adviser the consumer was not entirely 
truthful from the outset  about how that investment came about.  On  further investigation  it 
became apparent that regardless of the advisers  involvement the consumer would have 
invested and so Quilter  could  not be held responsible.  This shows  why it is important  to not 
only fully establish  but also test both parties  versions of events.
Quilter considers that its explanation of events is clearer than Mr Fs version and does not 
contradict the facts  or the contemporaneous documentation that has been  provided and 
likewise the lack of contemporaneous  documents that would otherwise be expected.  It says 
if I am unable to agree with Quilter, in the interests of fairness, I must convene an oral 
hearing to attempt to establish:
a)What advice, if any was provided  by Mr M to Mr F.
b)What representations, if any, were made  by Mr M to Mr F to show  that he was acting 
on Positive Solutions behalf  apart  from the SIPP application form.
c)To what  extent Mr F was able to reasonably rely on those representations.
d)Whether Mr F would always have proceeded with the investment regardless of 
Mr Ms involvement.
Ref: DRN99210873Positive Solutions says if the ombudsman service is unwilling or unable to hold a hearing it 
should find that this case would be more  suitable  to be dealt with by a court where the 
speculative submissions made by Mr F can be properly tested in cross-examination.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in order  to decide whether we can 
consider Mr Fs complaint.
should there be a hearing?
As I have already  explained, an oral hearing need  only be held where the dispute cannot 
fairly be resolved  without  hearing oral evidence.  Quilter says that is the position here.  I do 
not agree.   
In 2019/20 I considered two similar complaints against Positive Solutions.  The complaints 
involved a different adviser (a Mr H).  The complaints  were  that the adviser had advised the 
consumers to open SIPPs, transfer existing  pensions to them, and invest  in Harlequin 
Property investments  within the SIPP.  In both cases Positive Solutions said the adviser was 
not authorised  to advise on the SIPPs or Harlequin Property investments.  In both of those 
cases Positive Solutions said the following  about Mr H:
The adviser has informed us that he made  it very clear to the client,  that he was 
personally unable  to provide any advice on this type of investment  and that there was 
no regulated sales  process at Positive  Solutions  (Financial  Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.  He furthermore informed the client,  that it was 
unlikely that an investment  within  this environment would covered  [sic] by the FSCS 
and highlighted  that he was only able to act as an Introducer via a company  entitled 
[name given] who in turn acted as a conduit to Tailormade-Made Alternative 
Investments who arranged the proposed  property  purchase.
In this case Positive Solutions said the following about Mr M:
The adviser has informed us that he made  it very clear to this client,  that he was 
personally unable  to provide any advice on this type of investment  and that there was 
no regulated sales  process at Positive  Solutions  (Financial  Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.  He furthermore informed the clients,  that it was 
unlikely that an investment  within  this environment would covered  [sic] by the FSCS 
and highlighted  that he was only able to act as an Introducer via a company  entitled 
[name given] who in turn acted as a conduit to Harlequin who arranged the 
proposed property purchase.
So it can be seen that the two earlier cases,  and this one, are very similar - seemingly 
identical in some respects.
In both of the earlier  cases  I issued a provisional decision in which I analysed the evidence 
and concluded  that the adviser had given the disputed advice to the consumers, and that 
Positive Solutions was responsible for that advice  on the basis of apparent  authority  as I 
have done in this complaint.  I also considered that the advice  was unsuitable, and that 
Quilter should compensate the consumers.  
Ref: DRN99210874In those earlier cases Quilter did not agree with my provisional decisions.   It made  several 
points in response.  It thought I had misunderstood the law relating to agency,  that there was 
no rational basis  for deciding that any relevant representations had been made by Positive 
Solutions and that my analysis of the issue of reliance was flawed.  Quilter said the matter  
should be referred to a court or the ombudsman service should  hold an oral hearing  to fully 
assess the question  of reliance.
Positive Solutions said if I made a final decision in line with my provisional decision such a 
decision would be susceptible to challenge by way of judicial review.
Judicial review is the procedure by which the courts consider the decisions of public bodies, 
and other  bodies  exercising public functions, to ensure they act lawfully and fairly.  Such a 
claim may only be brought  with the permission of the court.   If the court is satisfied  that there 
are arguable grounds for a judicial  review  it will grant permission.  If not, the court  will not 
give permission.  
I issued final decisions in those earlier cases  in accordance with my provisional decisions.  
Quilter disagreed with them and made an application for judicial review.  The court  refused 
permission in both cases.  Mr Justice Murray issued effectively the same decision in each 
case.  He said:
A fair reading of the final decision dated  25/02/2020, which  incorporates  the 
provisional decision, of the Ombudsman shows that he directed himself correctly as 
to the law that applies in relation to apparent or ostensible authority and the other  
relevant matters of law about which the Claimant complains.  The Ombudsman made 
various findings of fact that were open to him on the evidence.  It cannot be said that 
any of the material  findings of fact were plainly wrong.  Given those  findings  of fact, it 
is not arguable  that there was error  of law in the Ombudsmans conclusion  that the 
Claimant was liable for the advice that was given to the interested party in this case 
as being within the scope  of Mr Hs ostensible  authority.  
Contrary to the Claimants grounds, the Ombudsman addressed  the question  of 
reliance by the Interested Party on what the Ombudsman found to be the Claimants  
general representation that Mr H had authority to act for it as a financial adviser to its 
customers, and it is clear that the Ombudsman  found that the reliance was 
reasonable.  His findings to that effect is not unlawful on any public law grounds.
There is no arguable  basis for the assertion that the Ombudsman did not have 
jurisdiction.  The relevant legal principles relating to apparent or ostensible  authority 
were not materially in dispute.  This  was primarily a fact-finding exercise  of a type 
that the Ombudsman was well-placed  to carry out, which is one of the ordinary 
functions of the Ombudsman.  It is, indeed, one of the principal purposes for which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service exists that an Ombudsman should  carry out such  
exercises, rather than court resources be used for this purpose  in cases  of this type.
Finally, there is no public law ground on which the Ombudsman decision that he did 
not need to hold an oral hearing  can arguably be impugned.  It is a matter for his 
judgment as to whether he would be assisted in this exercise by an oral hearing. 
I do not accept that the credibility  of evidence can only fairly be assessed at an oral hearing.   
Or that evidence may only be fairly  assessed  at an oral hearing.  Nor do I accept the 
argument that the issues in dispute in this case  as with the issues in the earlier  cases I 
Ref: DRN99210875have mentioned - may only be fairly determined by hearing oral evidence and allowing cross  
examination.  As Mr Justice Murray said, such fact-finding  is an ordinary function of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  which exists to carry out such exercises as an alternative to 
the courts.    
Quilter has referred to another case that I have dealt with involving the same adviser as in 
this case and an investment in a SIPP into a Harlequin Property  investment.   It points out 
that I came to the view that the consumer  would have invested  in the Harlequin investment 
even if the adviser  had advised him not to invest.   That is correct but it should be noted that I 
came to that view without holding a hearing  in that case either.  The  point is that the 
evidence in each  case is analysed fairly  in each case, in the way that is fair in each  case. 
It remains my view that the issues in dispute in this case can be fairly  determined without a 
hearing.
time bar
Mr F has said that he has provided all the documents he has.  There is no evidence he had 
any dealing  with any claims chasers.   I have seen no evidence that any law firm or CMC, or 
anyone else, advised Mr F that he might  have cause for complaint about anyone  who 
recommended that he invest  in Harlequin before 24 February 2014.   
Positive Solutions has said that in a similar  case it was decided  that the complaint was time 
barred.  Each case must be decided  on its own facts.   For example, in that other  case  the 
consumer was sufficiently  concerned  about his investment  to attend an open meeting held 
by the CEO of Harlequin in 2013.   
My view remains as set out in my provisional  decision  and as set out above.  It is therefore 
my view that the complaint was not made  late and can be considered.
was there  advice?
A first point to be clear on is that the complaint is that Mr M advised  Mr F to set up a SIPP  
with Rowanmoor and transfer his existing pension rights to it to invest in Harlequin.  Mr F 
says he was advised to invest in Harlequin by the Harlequin agent  who said he could not 
advise about pensions and referred him to Mr M for that advice.
Quilter says the pensions  matter was dealt with on an execution only basis.  It says this fits 
Mr Ms explanation.  It says it also fits with the lack of documentation.   It says Mr M was not 
required to keep records if no advice  was given.
It may be the case that no records of advice would be kept if no advice  is given.  But that is a 
different matter to the record keeping requirement  for execution only business.  According to 
Positive Solutions Compliance Procedures  handbook it had strict requirements relating  to 
execution only business.  Mr M was required to document execution only transactions.  He  
was required to obtain a signed  declaration  from the client agreeing  that the business is to 
be carried out on an execution only basis.  He was also required to provide documents  to 
Positive Solutions compliance department  for approval.  And he was required to send the 
client a letter confirming  that the business had been conducted on an execution only basis.  
The Compliance Procedures handbook says that the compliance department was to enter  
details of all execution only business  onto the execution  only register and routinely monitor 
Ref: DRN99210876the levels of such  transactions  for each  adviser.   So, in short, there ought to be records of 
any execution only business.
All of that said, Positive Solutions  advisers  were not permitted to transact  replacement  
business on an execution  only basis.  And  the SIPP in this case  was set up to replace Mr Fs 
existing pensions that were transferred to it in order to provide the funds to invest  in 
Harlequin.  Positive Solutions has also said that Rowanmoor was not an approved product 
and it did not allow the setting up of SIPPs with values of less than £75,000.
So even according to Quilters argument  Mr F was not acting in the way he should.  He  was 
not keeping appropriate records or complying with its rules.    
It is clear Mr M was engaged  in activities he should not have been engaged in, and that his 
account of events is not reliable.  Not only that, his account is not as plausible as Mr Fs 
version of events.  
Mr F says he was advised by Mr M to set up a SIPP with Rowanmoor and transfer his 
existing pensions to it.  There is documentary evidence that Mr M arranged  those  matters  
and that he used Positive Solutions note paper when doing so.
There is also evidence Mr F authorised Mr M at Positive Solutions to obtain information 
about his existing pensions from the product  provider.   And  that Mr M requested that 
information.  This would  not have been necessary  if Mr F had simply instructed Mr M to set 
up a SIPP  with Rowanmoor and transfer  his existing pensions to it  and that is the 
instruction that would have been needed  for this to have been  an execution  only matter.   
And this does not seem plausible given Mr Fs lack of knowledge  and expertise in pensions 
matters.  It is far more likely that Mr M advised  Mr F to apply for a SIPP  with Rowanmoor 
and transfer his existing pension to it, as Mr F says.
Another point  to note is that Mr M used Positive Solutions note paper when arranging  the 
pension application  and switch from the existing product provider.  It is difficult  to see why he 
would not have written  similarly to Mr F as Mr F says.   Mr F says he no longer has these 
letters after all this time.  That Mr F would  have had some letters  from Mr M at Positive 
Solutions and not kept them is entirely plausible and more  plausible than there being no 
letters now from Mr M to Mr F because  they never existed.  I do not accept that the lack of 
documentation fatally undermines  Mr Fs version  of events as Positive Solutions argues.
In the circumstances, as explained in my provisional  decision, I consider it more likely than 
not that Mr F was advised to set up a SIPP with Rowanmoor and transfer his pensions  to it 
by Mr M while purporting  to be an adviser with Positive Solutions.
was Positive  Solutions responsible for that advice?
In my provisional decision I said that Positive  Solutions did represent to Mr F that Mr M was 
authorised to give the investment advice  he gave to Mr F.  And that Mr F reasonably relied 
on Positive Solutions representation  that Mr M was authorised to give the investment advice 
he gave to him. 
My view remains that Positive Solutions was responsible for Mr Ms advice to Mr F for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN99210877findings - merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My view on the merits of Mr Fs complaint remains as set out in my provisional  decision.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  there is no evidence to suggest  Mr F would have 
invested in Harlequin if he had been  advised against investing his pension in it by Positive 
Solutions. (Or if he had been  so advised  by another IFA if Positive Solutions had refused to 
advise on the Harlequin investment scheme.) 
Quilter has referred to a different case I have  considered involving the same adviser.  But as 
Quilter knows  that case was unusual in that the complainant had a relationship  with the 
relevant Harlequin  agent unlike Mr F.  Mr F was referred to Mr M, a regulated  financial 
adviser with Positive  Solutions, because the Harlequin agent could not advise  about  
pensions.  Mr F had no special relationship  with the Harlequin agent or any other reason to 
prefer his view to that of Mr M when it came  to what was suitable  for his pension.   It is more 
likely than not that Mr F would have  accepted  Mr Ms advice if he had advised Mr F that the 
Harlequin investment  was not a suitable investment for his pension. 
My view remains, as set out in my provisional  decision, that the advice was unsuitable for 
Mr F and that he would not have invested  in Harlequin if he had been  given suitable advice 
by Mr M.
how to put things right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr F would have  left his pensions where  they were. I am satisfied that what  I have set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Fs circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
To compensate Mr F fairly, Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Fs previous pension plans, as if they had not 
been transferred  to the SIPP.
Quilter should ask the previous pension  provider to calculate the notional  transfer 
value they would have applied as at the date of this decision had Mr F not transferred 
his pensions but instead remained invested in them.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional values, then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used instead. That is a mixed index that 
is likely  to be a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have been achieved 
from pension funds  with the original provider  or reasonable alternatives.
2.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Fs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP provider. The difference  between  1 and 2 is 
the loss to the pension.
Ref: DRN992108783.Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the amount 
calculated in (2). This payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the 
effect of charges plus any withdrawals or additional contributions Mr F has made  
from the date they were  made. 
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Fs SIPP,  Quilter  should pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr F. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  So the total amount should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs expected marginal  rate of 
tax at retirement. 
4.When making any calculation, Quilter should assume  the Harlequin investment  Mr F 
holds has no value,  as it currently doesnt have any realisable  value.
My aim is to return Mr F to the position  he would have been in but for the unsuitable 
advice. This is complicated  where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be 
readily sold on the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult to know  the 
actual value of the investment. In such a case the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil to arrive at fair compensation.  
Ideally, Quilter should take full ownership of the Harlequin contract from Mr F so that 
it could secure any future benefit that arises  from the investment. But my 
understanding is that the ownership of the Harlequin  investment cant  currently  be 
transferred. 
So I think its fair that Quilter pay Mr F an upfront  lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees) or undertake to cover 
the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable 
period for things  to be worked  out so the SIPP can be closed.
So in return for the compensation  set out above,  Quilter can ask that Mr F provides 
an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive  from the Harlequin investment in 
the future,  as well as any other  payment he may receive from any party  as a result of 
this investment in that five-year period. Quilter will need to meet  any costs in drawing 
up this undertaking.  If it asks Mr F to provide an undertaking,  payment of the 
compensation Ive recommended above may be dependent upon  provision of that 
undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain any future 
payments under the investment, it must agree to pay any further  future SIPP fees.  If 
Quilter fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr F should  then have the option of trying  to cancel 
the investment  to allow the SIPP to be closed.   
In addition, Quilter is entitled  to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr F of any 
claim he may have against third parties in relation  to the Harlequin  investment. If 
Quilter chooses to take an assignment  of rights, it must be affected before payment 
of compensation  is made. Positive  Solutions must first provide a draft of the 
assignment/s to Mr F for his consideration and agreement.
Ref: DRN99210879Mr F has only paid a deposit to Harlequin,  but the contract he made was to pay the 
balance if the property development reached the appropriate stage. So in theory  
Harlequin could  call upon Mr F to pay that balance at a later date if everything isnt 
assigned. I consider it unlikely to be the case  but its important to highlight as if that 
were to happen, Mr F would not be able to refer the matter back to this Service 
again.
5.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.  
Mr F will have been  caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, 
and the loss of, in effect, all of his pension fund and the uncertainty  that it will have 
caused for his future plans, I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for 
that upset.
Quilter should also provide Mr F with a calculation in a simple and easy  to follow  format  
showing how it calculated the compensation payable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above  it is my decision that I can 
consider Mr Fs complaint against Quilter  Financial Planning Solutions Limited.  
It is also my decision that the complaint is upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited must  pay fair compensation to Mr F as set out above.
That fair compensation must be paid to Mr F within 28 days of Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited being notified of Mr Fs acceptance of this decision.  If not, Quilter 
Financial Planning Solutions  Limited  must also pay interest on the fair compensation at the 
rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of this decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN992108710Annex  copy of provisional decision dated 1 October 2020
complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that an adviser  acting for Positive Solutions, now Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions gave him unsuitable advice  to switch an existing pension to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) in order to invest in a Harlequin property-based investment.
background
Mr F says that in 2009 he heard about  Harlequin  investment when attending a local networking event.  
He was not looking to make  investments at the time but was interested in this idea which seemed a 
safe investment  like buying  a house and the Harlequin  agent said it was possible to use a pension to 
make the investment.  
Mr F says as the agent wasnt able to advise  about pensions,  he was introduced to an adviser with 
Positive Solutions  who I will call Mr M.  Mr  F says Mr M contacted him.  
Mr F says he did not meet with Mr M. Rather he dealt with him over the phone and by post.    
Mr F says he knew  Mr M was with Positive Solutions and understood  he was able to advise him about  
pensions.  Mr F says he was given a business card by Mr M but no longer has it.  Nor did he keep any 
other documents.  Mr  F says Mr M advised him to open a SIPP with Rowanmoor  and transfer his 
existing personal pension to it and that he signed and returned documents to Mr M as he was asked 
to do.  
Mr F says the SIPP application form he signed included  details of Mr M as an adviser  with Positive  
Solutions.
The SIPP was opened  in late 2009 and Mr Fs existing  personal pensions,  valued  at about £32,000, 
were switched  to the SIPP and the funds were invested in an off-plan (ie not yet built) property 
investment scheme with Harlequin in March  2010.  The property  was a studio apartment  in the 
Buccament Bay resort development in St Vincent  and the Grenadines.  The purchase price was 
£90,000.  Mr F paid a deposit of £27,000.  Further payments were  due as the building work 
progressed.  The target completion date was 31 July 2011.
Later the Harlequin investment failed and Mr F complained to Positive  Solutions with the help of a 
claims management company (CMC).  This was in February 2017.
Positive Solutions did not uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  It said the complaint had been made  too late to be 
considered because Mr F should have known about problems with the Harlequin  investment for more  
than three  years before he complained.
Mr F referred  his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Positive Solutions said we should 
not consider the complaint  because it was made too late.  Also,  it says, the adviser was not 
authorised to give the advice complained about because:
Positive Solutions had not authorised the adviser  to recommend either  the Rowanmoor  SIPP 
or the Harlequin investment.
The adviser  should  have  obtained prior approval before  recommending unregulated  
investments such  as the Harlequin  investment and for setting up a SIPP  with a balance below 
£75,000.
The adviser  was not acting for Positive Solutions  he was acting as an introducer for  a 
subagent of Harlequin.
Positive Solutions says it has no record of the disputed advice or transaction, and it received no 
commission or other payments in relation to it.  It says Mr F was not its client.
Ref: DRN992108711The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who did not agree with Positive Solutions.   
She thought:
the complaint  was not time barred.  
Positive Solutions was responsible for the advice.  
The adviser  should  not have recommended the setting up, and switching of a pension to, a 
SIPP without considering the suitability  of the investment Mr F was proposing to make.   
The investment in Harlequin was unsuitable for Mr F in his circumstances.
Suitable advice in Mr Fs circumstances would  have been  to leave his pensions unchanged 
and not invest in Harlequin. 
As Mr F would not have invested in Harlequin  if the adviser had given  suitable advice, and 
Positive Solutions should compensate Mr F for the losses  he has suffered.
Positive Solutions disagrees with the investigator on all points and has asked for things to be referred  
to an ombudsman to decide.
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether we can consider this 
complaint.
time bar  the rules
Put briefly,  where  a firm does not consent,  we can only consider a complaint if it made:
within six years of the event complained  about
or, if later, within three years of when the complainant knew, or should  reasonably  have 
known they had cause  for complaint.
These normal time bar rules can be waived if the delay  in making the complaint was the result of 
exceptional circumstances.
This complaint relates to events in 2009 and early 2010.  Mr F complained to Positive  Solutions on 24 
February 2017, so the complaint was made more  than six years after the events  the complaint is 
about.  The  issue is therefore  whether  Mr F complained within three years  of when  he knew or should 
reasonably have known he had cause for complaint.  I will refer to this as relevant knowledge  for 
short.   So the issue is whether Mr F had relevant knowledge before 24 February 2014.
time bar - what  Positive Solutions says
Positive Solutions says the Essex police and the Serious  Fraud  Office announced in March  2013 that 
they were investigating Harlequin Group.  It  says the SFO issued questionnaires to all investors.  It 
says claims chasers  were  contacting investors at that time also.
Positive Solutions says these  points  should  have  made Mr F realise  the investment was unsuitable 
since he says he did not want high risk investments.
Positive Solutions has also, in effect,  argued Mr F should have  noticed from things like his pension 
statements that the investment was worthless from around this time. And it does not see what more 
relevant information he needed to learn  or did discover  before making his complaint in 2017.
time bar  what  Mr F says
The CMC on Mr Fs behalf  says Mr F was contacted by Harlequin  in October 2016 to ask him if he 
was able to pay extra money to move  his investment from an unfinished to a finished property.  This 
would involve a payment of £30,000 plus legal fees.   Mr F says he made  it clear from the outset he 
Ref: DRN992108712had no available money and was relying  on the mortgage that had been promised to finance his 
purchase.  Mr F says Harlequin told him, in that case, he may have been ill advised.  And this is the 
time Mr F first became aware he had cause for complaint.
However relevant knowledge includes  what Mr F should reasonably have  known and the CMC has 
accepted that a letter  from Rowanmoor in March  2015 should  perhaps have given him cause for 
concern.  That  letter (dated 17 March 2015) said:
I write further to my colleagues letter of 11 February 2015 enclosing your Annual Statement 
as at 17 December 2014.  As you will recall, the Statement shows the value  of your share of 
fund in the above SIPP at that date and this [sic] based only on contributions  and transfers 
received up to that time.
Please note your Harlequin investment has been valued at book cost (initial investment cost)  
for the purpose of the Statutory Money Purchase Illustration (SMPI),  which was issued to you 
on 11 February 2014.  This book cost valuation will continue to be applied for your SMPIs, 
unless we receive an acceptable valuation demonstrating a different value.
We know there is currently a question over the actual value at which  Harlequin  asset(s) could 
be realised today.  Therefore, if at some future time you wish to actually crystallise benefits  
and there  is still doubt about the value of an investment, please be aware that the value  of 
this asset  would have to be excluded from the fund value  available to be crystallised.  If the 
asset can be shown to have  a value at a date after the crystallisation, they would then be 
added to the funds available for drawdown.
Please consult with you appointed  financial adviser  before crystallising benefits  from your 
plan.
 
This letter was less than three  years  before the complaint was made so Mr F says his complaint is not 
time barred.
time bar  my view
The Harlequin  investment involved buying a studio  apartment off-plan on a development in St Vincent  
and the Grenadines.   As mentioned above, the purchase price  was £90,000.  
Mr F paid a deposit  of £27,000.  Further  payments were due as the building work progressed and the 
target completion date was 31 July 2011.
The investment was not however a straighthood property investment with the property to be used as a 
second home  or holiday  home.   The owner  had only limited rights to occupy the property.   Rather  it 
was part of a scheme to be managed by or for a Harlequin company which was to manage the whole 
resort and provide an income  to investors through rental income and with the possibility of profits from 
the sale of the property in the future.  
It is the case that the police and the SFO announced the launching of an investigation into parts of 
Harlequin in 2013.  However, this was done via press  release, which  did generate publicity, not 
personal contact  to individual investors.  And, as I understand it, it was the UK sales arm of Harlequin 
that was to be investigated rather than, say, the Harlequin  Company running the Buccament Bay 
scheme.
I do not think  it necessarily  follows that in 2013 an investor  would conclude that he had cause to 
complain about his adviser who recommended  the investment rather than, say, the people and/or 
companies that were  being investigated for alleged  fraud.
That said the uncertain position of the investment started to become clear notwithstanding any 
positive comments being made  by Harlequin itself or by Mr M if asked.  The picture will have emerged 
Ref: DRN992108713that the property  Mr F was investing in was not being built and the investment could not easily be 
cancelled or surrendered and the investment monies  returned.  
But the investment did not dramatically or suddenly fail in 2013.  This is shown by Rowanmoors letter  
in March 2015.  It talks of continuing to show the value  as book cost until there was an acceptable  
valuation showing a different  value.   It did not say the investment was a write off, for example.   It did 
however say that at that point the investment could not be crystallised  meaning it could not be 
encashed or sold.  
I think  this ought to have given Mr F cause for concern. Put another way I think  this letter probably 
should have given Mr F relevant knowledge.  However,  the letter  of March 2015 was within three 
years of the making of the complaint in 2017.
I cannot see that there is evidence upon which to base  a finding that Mr F had relevant knowledge  
before the letter of March  2015.  
It is therefore  my view that the complaint was made within the time limits set out in the jurisdiction 
rules.
jurisdiction  the not acting for Positive Solutions point
Put briefly,  we can consider  Mr Fs complaint if the complaint is about a regulated activity that Positive  
Solutions authorised  Mr M to carry on.
In this case, the Harlequin investment is an unregulated  collective investment scheme (UCIS).   
Advising on the merits of investing on such investments  is a regulated activity.  So too is advising  
someone to switch their pension rights from an existing personal pension to a SIPP.  And so is advice 
on how to invest the funds in the new SIPP including  any advice to invest those  funds  in a UCIS.   
Arranging such investments is also a regulated activity.
Mr F says Mr M did advise him to take out a SIPP and transfer his existing  pensions to it in order to 
invest in the Harlequin investment.
Positive Solutions seems to disagree  that there was advice and it certainly  says it did not authorise Mr 
M to give the disputed advice or arrange those investments.  Its main position is that if Mr M did do 
those things he was not acting for Positive Solutions when he did so and so it is not responsible, and 
the complaint cannot be considered against it.
was there advice?
Mr F says he was advised  by Mr M acting for Positive Solutions.  Positive Solutions says he wasnt.  
And there is no clear documentary evidence recording any such  advice.  That does not however 
establish conclusively that no advice  was given.
Mr F says he was referred to Mr M at Positive Solutions in order to get advice about investing using 
his pensions by the Harlequin agent because it could  not advise  about pensions.
Mr F does not say Mr M advised  him to invest in Harlequin as such   the investment had already 
been recommended to him by an agent  of Harlequin. There is no suggestion  that the agent also 
recommended the use of a Rowanmoor SIPP  for the investment or otherwise referred  Mr F to 
Rowanmoor.  
Mr F says he was referred to an independent financial adviser for advice and there is evidence  to 
show that Mr M was involved in the application for the SIPP with Rowanmoor.  (Mr M of Positive  
Solutions is named  as the financial adviser under  who is to advise you on the SIPP application  form.   
And the application form includes  details  of the existing  pensions to be transferred to the SIPP.) 
Ref: DRN992108714As a general  point it is of course plausible  that a non-finance  person would seek  advice about how to 
invest using a pension.  And in this case Mr F has taken out a new SIPP with Rowanmoor  and 
transferred some existing pensions  to it in order to invest in Harlequin  and it is unlikely he would  have 
done that without some  form of help or assistance.  It  is also likely that that such  help and assistance 
included advice on the merits of taking out a SIPP with Rowanmoor  even if that was only in the form 
recommending the use of Rowanmoor because it was the only SIPP operator  that would accept  
Harlequin investments.   
On balance it is my view that it is more likely  than not that Mr F was advised  to apply  for a SIPP with 
Rowanmoor and transfer existing pension rights  to that SIPP by Mr M while he purported  to be an 
adviser for Positive  Solutions.
was the advice given  on behalf of Positive Solutions?
Mr M was not an employee of Positive Solutions  he was its agent.  Positive  Solutions say Mr M was 
acting beyond  the scope  of the agency  agreement  between them  and so he was not acting for it if he 
gave the disputed advice.
The law recognises more  than one type of agency.  There is agency based on actual authority.  And 
in this case, there was a written agency agreement between Mr M setting out the terms of which Mr M 
acted for Positive  Solutions.  There is a general point  in agency of this type that the agent is required 
to act in the principals best interests.
In this case giving advice on investments Positive Solutions had not approved and not accounting  to it 
in any way means  Mr M was not acting in accordance  with the actual  authority he had been given.
That is not however the end of the matter  because there is also agency based on apparent or 
ostensible authority.  It arises when  the principal  represents to third parties through  words or conduct  
that the agent  has authority to act on its behalf and the third party  reasonably relies upon that 
representation.
The case law makes  it clear that whether  a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent on 
the circumstances of the individual case. So here, I must consider whether, on the facts  of this 
individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr F that Mr M had Positive  Solutions authority  
to act on its behalf in carrying  out the activities he now complains about; and
Mr F reasonably relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now 
complains about.
I need to decide whether  Positive  Solutions placed Mr M in a position which  would objectively 
generally be regarded as carrying  its authority  to enter into transactions such as setting  up of the 
SIPP to transfer existing pensions  to it in order to invest in the Harlequin investment scheme. Put 
another way, did Positive Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly  lead Mr F to believe that Mr M 
was authorised to conduct  business on its behalf of a type (namely, advising and arranging 
investments) that he was not in fact authorised to conduct?
If I find that it did, I also need  to decide whether Mr F reasonably relied on any representation Positive 
Solutions made.
did Positive Solutions represent to Mr F that Mr M had the relevant authority?
The ultimate  question is whether there was apparent  authority in relation to this transaction. But to 
answer that question, it is right for me to consider whether Positive Solutions placed Mr M in a 
position which  would  objectively carry Positive Solutions  authority for Mr M to conduct  business  of a 
type he did in fact conduct.
Ref: DRN992108715Its not clear Mr F was given a terms of business agreement in respect of the disputed advice.  If he 
was it would  have shown that Mr M could advise  on and arrange investments and set up SIPPs  for 
Positive Solutions customers. None of these activities would  be unexpected  for an IFA firm. They  are 
all the type of activity that IFAs  are usually authorised to do. 
Even if Mr F did see the terms of business agreement, any restrictions on the authority to give advice 
on transferring existing  pensions,  setting  up a SIPP or using only certain investments would not have 
been visible to Mr F. So, for example, he would  not know that an adviser  should  only recommend  
approved investments, should obtain clearance from Positive Solutions before  giving certain  types of 
advice and should present  the advice in certain ways.
If Mr F did not see the terms of business agreement, he did still know Mr F to be an adviser for 
Positive Solutions.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser that gave advice and offered 
products from the whole  of the market after assessing a clients needs. No information was provided 
to clients  or potential  clients about the agent being authorised in relation  to approved  products only.  
Positive Solutions authorised Mr M to give investment  advice on its behalf and Mr M was held out by it 
as authorised to give investment advice  on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged for Mr M to appear 
on the FSA register in respect  of Positive Solutions. And Mr M was approved to carry on the 
controlled function  CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions placed Mr M in a position which  would,  in the outside world, generally be regarded 
as having authority to carry out the acts Mr F complains about.
Positive Solutions provided Mr M with Positive Solutions business stationery and business  cards.   Mr 
F says he did receive a business  card and correspondence from Mr M at Positive  Solutions but he no 
longer has them.  While  Positive  Solutions may find that unlikely it is not implausible.  I  am aware of 
Mr M using Positive  Solutions  stationery in other cases involving Harlequin investments in 
Rowanmoor SIPPs.  And  Mr M dealing with matters using his Positive  Solutions persona is also 
consistent with his dealings with Mr Fs existing pension  provider.  And with Rowanmoor, and it 
corresponding with him as a Positive Solutions representative in this case  which is documented in 
this complaint.  
The absence of copy letters to Mr F does not prove that no such letters ever existed and I think  Mr Fs 
account - that Mr M dealt with him by correspondence using Positive Solutions notepaper but that he 
no longer has the documents  - is reasonable, believable  and I accept  it.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr F to understand that it was 
taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions 
intended Mr F to act on its representation that Mr M was its financial  adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions business. 
It said in its terms of business that its Partners would  give impartial,  independent  financial advice. I 
do not see how Positive  Solutions could  have  carried out its business  activities at all if the general  
public had not treated registered individuals like Mr M as having authority to give investment advice 
on behalf of Positive Solutions.
It is my view that all of these points taken together mean that Positive Solutions did represent to Mr F 
that Mr M was authorised  to give the investment  advice he gave  to Mr F.
did Mr F reasonably  rely on Positive Solutions representation?
Mr F has said he understood Mr M to be acting as Positive Solutions adviser when he gave that 
advice. Positive Solutions has said the following in relation to this: 
Ref: DRN992108716The adviser has previously  informed us that he made it very clear to this client that he was 
personally unable to provide any advice on this type of investment and that there was no 
regulated sales process at Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business.
To pause there for a moment  I note that Positive Solution made exactly the same point in exactly the 
same words about another adviser who was also said to have recommended  a Harlequin investment  
in two other complaints  I have seen.  (What is more  there  was clear  evidence in one of those  cases 
that contradicted  what the adviser had apparently told Positive Solutions about making it clear  to the 
client that he was personally unable to provide advice and that there was no sales process  at Positive  
Solutions that accommodated  this type of business.)   It is as if either  Positive Solutions had mixed up 
the cases, or the advisers had somehow  been given exactly the same explanation to use.  Either 
explanation tends to undermine  the credibility of what has been said.
Positive Solutions went on to say:
He furthermore  informed  the clients, that it was unlikely  that the investment within  this 
environment would [be] covered by the FSCS and highlighted that he was only able to act as 
an introducer via a company entitled Platinum  Investment Properties who in turn acted as a 
conduit to Harlequin who arranged the proposed purchase.
I do not accept that Mr M only acted as an introducer in relation to Mr F.  I have already made the 
finding that it is more likely than not that Mr M did advise Mr F to take out a SIPP with Rowanmoor 
and to transfer his existing pension to it so that he could make the investment he was considering in 
Harlequin.  That is regulated investment advice.  And it was Mr Fs understanding that he was 
introduced to Mr M in order  to get that regulated investment advice  advice  the Harlequin agent was 
not itself authorised to give.  
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr F knew or should reasonably  have known that Mr M was 
acting in any capacity other than a Positive Solutions adviser.  
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr F proceeded  on the basis that 
Mr M was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions  with authority from Positive  
Solutions so to act.  In other words, Mr F reasonably relied on Positive  Solutions representation that 
Mr M was authorised to give the investment advice he gave to Mr F.
It is therefore  my finding  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mr F complains  about  
and that we can consider his complaint.
my provisional  findings  - merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As the investigator said, in 2013  the FSA issued  an alert in relation to Advising on pension transfers 
with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated  products through  a SIPP. Amongst other 
things, this said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving  advice to 
customers on pension  transfers  or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed  to be held within  the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs)  that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated  
investments (some of which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes). 
Examples of these unregulated  investments  areoverseas property developments
Ref: DRN992108717The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally  requires consideration of the 
other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in 
unregulated schemes. It should be particularly  clear  to financial  advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the 
advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy  the 
customer is contemplating.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds  to invest  in an overseas  
property investment under  a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property  investment 
must form part of the advice  about whether  the customer should  transfer into the SIPP. If, 
taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  product, 
including its underlying holdings, is more  suitable for the customer,  then the SIPP is not 
suitable.
Although this alert was issued after Mr M advised  Mr F to take out a SIPP and transfer  his existing 
pension rights to it, the above was a reminder  of existing  obligations  and therefore is relevant.
I note the following comments made by the Upper  Tribunal Tax and Chancery  Chamber in the case 
Alistair Burns v Financial  Conduct Authority [2018]  UKUT 0246 (TCC):
273 It would be readily apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by 
interests in a defined benefit scheme or in a personal  pension  invested in a spread  of 
traditional investments,  to switch his benefits into a SIPP  which was to be wholly invested in 
either a single or very small number of inherently  risky overseas property investments was a 
wholly unsuitable course of action for that investor to take 
I agree with that view.  The investment in Harlequin was relatively high risk. In my view investing in an 
unregulated off-plan  overseas property investment scheme  involved a high degree of risk which  was 
not suitable for Mr F  particularly when the investment was a large proportion of Mr Fs pension.  
There is no evidence  he was a high-risk  investor or that such a high-risk investment and investment 
strategy was suitable for him. 
It is my view that Mr F should not have been advised to transfer his pension  to a SIPP in order to 
invest in Harlequin. He should have been advised  not to transfer  his pension at all.  And Mr F says the 
only way he could have  invested was via his pension  as he had no other funds available.   
There is no evidence  to suggest  Mr F would have invested in Harlequin  if he had been advised  
against investing his pension in it by Positive Solutions (Or if he had been so advised  by another IFA 
if Positive Solutions had refused to advise on the Harlequin investment  scheme.) It is therefore  my 
present view that he if had been given suitable  advice Mr F would  have left his pensions with the 
existing pension provider  and he would not have  made the Harlequin investment.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice.
I think  Mr F would have  left his pension where  they were. I am satisfied that what I have set out below 
is fair and reasonable given  Mr Fs circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr F fairly, Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited should:
Ref: DRN9921087186.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Fs previous pension plans, as if they had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
Quilter should  ask the previous pension  provider  to calculate the notional transfer value they 
would have applied  as at the date of this view had Mr F not transferred his pensions but 
instead remained invested in them.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining notional values, then the FTSE  WMA Stock Market 
Income Total  Return Index should be used instead. That is a mixed  index that is likely  to be a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could  have  been achieved from pension funds  
with the original providers or reasonable alternatives.
7.Obtain  the notional transfer  value  of Mr Fs SIPP,  including any outstanding  charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP provider. The difference between 1 and 2 is the loss to 
the pension.
8.Pay an amount into Mr Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the amount 
calculated in (2). This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges plus any withdrawals or additional contributions  Mr F has made  from the date they 
were made. 
If its unable to pay the total amount into Mr Fs SIPP, Quilter should pay the compensation as 
a cash sum to Mr F. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would  have provided a 
taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Fs expected marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
9.When making any calculation, Quilter should assume the Harlequin investment  Mr F holds 
has no value, as it currently doesnt have any realisable  value.
My aim is to return Mr F to the position  he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily sold on the 
open market) as in this case. It would  be difficult to know the actual value of the investment. 
In such  a case the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Ideally, Quilter should take full ownership  of the Harlequin contract  from Mr F so that it could 
secure any future benefit that arises from the investment. But my understanding is that the 
ownership of the Harlequin investment cant currently be transferred. 
So I think its fair that Quilter pay Mr F an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth  of 
SIPP fees (calculated  using the previous years fees) or undertake to cover the fees that fall 
due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable period  for things to be 
worked out so the SIPP can be closed.
So in return for the compensation  set out above,  Quilter can ask that Mr F provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the Harlequin  investment in the future,  
as well as any other payment he may receive  from any party as a result of this investment in 
that five year period.  Quilter will need  to meet  any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it 
asks Mr F to provide an undertaking, payment  of the compensation Ive recommended above 
may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain any future  payments 
under the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP  fees. If Positive Solutions 
Ref: DRN992108719fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr F should then have  the option of trying to cancel the investment 
to allow the SIPP to be closed.  
In addition, Quilter is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr F of any claim he 
may have against third parties in relation  to the Harlequin investment. If Quilter chooses to 
take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of compensation is made. 
Positive Solutions must first provide a draft of the assignment/s  to Mr F for his consideration 
and agreement.
Mr F has only paid a deposit to Harlequin, but the contract he made  was to pay the balance  if 
the property  development reached the appropriate stage. So in theory Harlequin could call 
upon Mr F to pay that balance at a later date if everything isnt assigned. I consider  it unlikely 
to be the case  but its important to highlight  as if that were to happen, Mr F would  not be 
able to refer the matter  back  to this Service again.
10.Pay Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.  
Mr F will have  been  caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
loss of, in effect, all of his pension  fund and the uncertainty that it will have caused for his 
future plans, I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
Quilter should  also provide  Mr F with a calculation  showing its calculation of the compensation  due in 
a simple and easy to follow  format. 
The compensation  should be paid promptly and interest of 8% simple interest should be paid on the 
compensation if it is not paid with 28 days of Quilter being informed of Mr Fs acceptance of my final 
decision.
my provisional  decision
It is my provisional decision that we can consider Mr Fs complaint, that the complaint should be 
upheld and that Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions Limited should pay fair redress as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9921087