K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms J are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
Allianz Insurance Plc.
background
Mr and Ms Js insurance policy with Allianz started in 1998.  At that stage the premium was 
£124 for the year. In 1999,  the policy cost £142. 
In 2004, Mr and Ms J made a claim for subsidence damage to their property. That claim is 
still ongoing and has been the subject of multiple complaints. The latest of which  is currently 
being looked at by this service under a separate reference  including  in relation to the 
provision of ongoing insurance  cover.  
For 2018, the premium  was £666, and Mr and Ms J complained about the increases over the 
years. Mr and Ms J say they are being  charged more than theyd pay to insure a larger  
property in the same location. In addition to this, they say that all their premiums  should be 
refunded in light of the subsidence  repairs having not been carried out since 2004. And that 
Allianz agreed to a refund of £15,000 in a letter dated 1 February 2018.
Allianz says the policy covered the buildings only in 1998 and 1999. In 2000,  Mr and Ms J 
added contents  cover. In 2007 a laptop  was specified on the policy, with another laptop 
added in 2012. In addition  to the subsidence  claim in 2004, there was a storm claim in 1999 
and escape of water claims in 2007  and 2013.  In 2010, Allianz reassessed the risk of claims 
(including their cost) across the UK, which resulted in an increase  in the price Mr and Ms J 
had to pay. All of these things contributed to the increases in price.
Our investigator thought Allianz had treated Mr and Ms J fairly when setting the price of their 
policy over the years.  Mr and Ms J disagreed, so Ive been asked to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This decision is only about the premiums 
charged. While  Im aware of the issues with the subsidence claim and the provision of 
ongoing insurance, these matters are being dealt with by this service under a separate 
complaint reference.  
I also understand how Mr and Ms J say their subsidence complaint is part of the complaint 
about the price   they say the price is unfair as theyve paid for a service  they havent  
received, namely  timey repair to damage caused  by subsidence.  But that will be dealt with 
under the other complaint our service is considering about what  Allianz  needs  to do under 
the policy paid for. This complaint is solely about  the price charged  for that policy.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Allianz has treated Mr and Ms J 
fairly when  setting the premiums throughout the period they held their insurance policy.
If I find that Allianz hasnt  treated Mr and Ms J fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair. However, having considered all the available  evidence and arguments in this 
Ref: DRN92634602case, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Ms J will be disappointed 
with this, and Ill explain my reasons. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
I dont think this is such a case. Mr and Ms J purchased their insurance through  an 
insurance broker. And there were a number  of occasions over the years  that they engaged 
with the policy  either at renewal or when making  mid-term adjustments (such  as specifying 
an item to be insured). 
I can see that the policy price both increased  and decreased, but there  were  some 
noticeably larger increases in the premiums. I think these occurred as a result  of the 
following:
new customer discounts  being  recouped (1999)
a change to the policy  such as extending cover (2000) or specifying  items to be covered 
(2008 and 2013)
a claim (2000, 2005, 2008 and 2015)
Allianz reassessing risk across  the UK (2010)
Insurers often offer an introductory  discount. This isnt uncommon and policies may well 
initially be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer  to seek 
to recoup that cost over the subsequent  years.
When there is a change to what is being covered, in this case adding  contents cover or 
specifying items on the policy, I would expect this to cause  the premium  to increase. 
Mr and Ms J have  said that they didnt ever alter the policy. But Ive seen evidence that 
indicates they did. It was some time ago, so I can understand if they dont remember  doing  
so. Especially because  their main focus appears  to be on their subsidence claim. 
When a claim  has been  made,  an insurer will usually factor this into the price  it charges in 
future. So, I would  expect  to see an increase at those times. Mr and Ms J argue  that a claim 
should only affect the price of a policy for up to five years. But I dont think thats  necessarily 
the case. Here  the subsidence  claim has yet to be finalised. So, I dont think it would be 
unfair for Allianz to be mindful of that when  setting the premiums. Having said that, the 
increases seen in this case dont suggest  that this has been a major factor  in what 
Mr and Ms J have  been charged. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this. And thats what happened  in 2010.
Mr and Ms J say that Allianz agreed  to refund  all their premiums  in a letter dated 
1 February 2018.  But I disagree. I have read this letter and, while it says their complaint 
about their subsidence claim is being  upheld, it makes no offer of settlement. What it says is 
that the complaint is with this service  and that Allianz will await the outcome of our 
investigation. 
Ref: DRN92634603I dont think the problems with Mr and Ms Js claim means that Allianz should refund all their 
premiums. It seems  that what Mr and Ms J primarily want is for the subsidence  damage  to 
the house to be repaired  and their home  to remain insured. That,  including  whether 
additional compensation should be paid to them, is being dealt with by this service under a 
separate complaint reference. So, given  that Ive found that Allianz didnt treat Mr and Ms J 
unfairly when setting the premiums, I am not going  to tell Allianz to pay any refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms J 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9263460