K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited (AESEL)  (Amex) withdrew 
the refer  a friend benefit from her credit  card account without giving her notice. 
Mrs M also complains  that Amex emailed her about  the refer a friend benefit after it had 
already told her it had been withdrawn. 
background 
Mrs M has held an Amex  card for several years and told us she previously  used the refer a 
friend benefit to get reward  points. 
In May 2018  Mrs M referred a friend to Amex but didnt receive the reward  points she was 
expecting. Mrs M complained and Amex explained  it had withdrawn  the refer a friend  
promotion from her credit  card type so she wasnt eligible  to receive the reward points. 
Amex later sent Mrs M an email  setting out the details of its refer  a friend promotion,  
despite her credit card not being  eligible for it. 
Mrs M referred  her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. He thought Amexs email was confusing and it subsequently agreed to offer 
Mrs M £50 to apologise. But the adjudicator said the refer a friend benefit had never 
formed part of Mrs Ms credit card terms and conditions so didnt feel Amex had to give her 
notice of its intention  to withdraw  the promotion.  
Mrs M didnt  feel the offer of £50 reflected the impact  of Amexs errors and remains of the 
view that the refer a friend  promotion was essentially  a permanent benefit so she shouldve  
been told before it was withdrawn. As Mrs M didnt agree with the adjudicator, her 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  From what Ive seen, there are two key 
issues here. The first is whether Amex had to let Mrs M know  of its intention to remove  the 
refer a friend benefit before it took that step.  The second relates to the service  Mrs M 
received when Amex  emailed her about a promotion  she didnt qualify for. Ill look at each in 
turn. 
Mrs M firmly  feels that the refer a friend promotion  is a permanent benefit and, as such,  
she shouldve been given advance warning it was being removed. In response to the 
adjudicators view Mrs M has provided information from Amexs  website  about  other  credit  
card types  that still qualify  for the incentive. 
Ive looked at everything Mrs Ms provided and whilst I note that the refer a friend  
information is contained in the screenshots shes sent us, that doesnt make  it part of the 
account terms and conditions. Ive read the account  terms  for both the Premium Plus  and 
Basic cards and neither contains the refer a friend promotion despite it still being 
available. Ive also read the terms and conditions for Mrs Ms Premium Amex card and can 
confirm that the refer a friend promotion isnt mentioned there either. All three  credit  card 
terms discuss how the reward  points  can be earned  and those terms havent changed. 
Ref: DRN94753472I appreciate the promotion was long standing and Mrs M had used it before. But that doesnt 
make it permanent or mean that Amex  cant decide  to withdraw it. I understand why Mrs M is 
upset, but I havent  found any evidence that the promotion formed  part of the account terms 
or that Amex had to give advance notice of its intention to withdraw it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but as I havent been persuaded that Amex had to tell her 
before it took the step of withdrawing the refer  a friend promotion from her Premium credit  
card Im not telling it to compensate  her with the reward points shes  asked for. 
Amex sent Mrs M an email about  the refer a friend promotion after shed already been  told 
her card type no longer qualified. I agree that this was poorly timed and can understand why 
Mrs M was annoyed. Amex has agreed  to pay Mrs M £50 because of the email.  Ive 
considered the impact  of the email  on Mrs M. Having done so, I think the £50 its agreed to 
pay fairly reflects the impact of its error  so Im not telling it to increase the settlement or take 
any further action  to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) to pay Mrs M £50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9475347