K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent him money  he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr N took out one loan with Lending Stream for £400 in November 2017.  Mr N was due to 
repay the loan by monthly instalments of about £186. 
Mr N told Lending Stream that his net monthly income was £1,400. He declared monthly 
expenses of £550.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint be upheld.  He thought that Lending 
Stream carried out adequate checks.  The adjudicator thought  that based on the information 
Mr N gave, the loan appeared to be affordable.
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation.  He said that if Lending Stream had 
checked his credit file, it wouldve seen a number of loans in place. 
Mr N was also unhappy that Lending Stream didnt agree  to freeze  interest and charges until 
his complaint has been resolved.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 November 2018.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Mr N could afford to pay the loan back before  it lent to him. There  wasnt a set list of checks 
it had to carry out. But the checks  had to be proportionate to things such as the amount 
borrowed, the length of the agreement and any borrowing history. 
I could understand  why the adjudicator thought that Lending Stream carried  out adequate 
checks before agreeing  the loan. It was Mr Ns first loan from Lending Stream and the 
repayments were relatively  low in proportion to Mr Ns declared income. It seemed as though  
Mr N had more than enough disposable  income to be able to afford the loan.
In the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, I wouldve agreed  with the adjudicator  
that it was reasonable of Lending Stream  to agree to lend.  However, Lending Stream gave  
us some further information  about the credit search  that it carried out. The search showed 
that Mr N had just over £14,000  of outstanding credit  commitments.
Mr N didnt include anything for credit commitments in his expenditure information. I thought  
Lending Stream had enough information  to realise  that Mr N mustve owed something to 
other creditors. I thought  it was proportionate  to expect  Lending  Stream to act on this 
information and find out more about Mr Ns other  debts.
Ref: DRN93797652If Lending Stream had tried to verify Mr Ns other  credit commitments,  it seemed likely  it 
wouldve discovered that Mr N was paying  another  short term lender about  £260 each month  
during the time he was due to repay  Lending  Stream. Mr N had also recently borrowed £400 
from a different payday lender. Mr N repaid more than £250 to a third short term lender in 
the same  month that he borrowed from Lending Stream.
If I added just the two other short term lending commitments to Mr Ns declared monthly 
outgoings of £550, he wouldnt have been left with enough disposable  income to afford  his 
repayments to Lending  Stream. With better checks,  I didnt think Lending Stream  wouldve 
agreed to lend. 
I thought Mr N had lost out so Lending  Stream should pay him compensation. I understood 
that Mr N still owed  money on the loan. As hed had the benefit of the money lent, I thought  it 
was fair to allow Lending Stream to apply the refund against any outstanding principal 
balance if it chose.
further submissions
Mr N and Lending Stream agree with my provisional  decision.  Lending  Stream  says that    
Mr N still owes  money  on the loan so it intends  to apply the refund against the outstanding 
principal balance due. 
 
my findings
As Mr N and Lending Stream agree with my provisional decision, I think its reasonable to 
make my final decision along the same lines. If he hasnt done so already, I urge Mr N to 
contact Lending  Stream to discuss repayment  of the outstanding  principal  balance.
putting things right
To put things right Lending Stream should:
Refund any interest and charges that Mr N paid on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges
If it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  **; and
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Ns credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
Lending Stream intends to apply the refund against the principal balance outstanding, it must 
do so after taking off the tax.
** Lending Stream  says that after carrying out these steps there will still be a principal  
balance due.  I would expect Lending Stream to treat any repayment proposals that Mr N 
makes, sympathetically and reasonably.
Ref: DRN93797653my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement,  I require Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to put 
things right by doing as Ive set out in the above bullet points.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9379765