K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Scottish  Widows-branded  mortgage that Ms A holds with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. Ms A is unhappy that Lloyds took legal action over arrears  on the 
mortgage and sent the relevant correspondence to an address at which it knew  she didnt 
live. This means the court granted possession without her knowledge,  and based  on 
evidence from Lloyds  that she says was untrue.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This is consistent with what  our enabling  legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters 
which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another  reason Ive left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms A when my decision is published.
Ms A has held the mortgage for about twelve years. However, in 2009, she sustained 
serious physical injuries that have left her largely  bed-ridden, unable  to work and unable to 
continue living in her home (which  is a first-floor  apartment). Since then shes  lived in her 
parents home. For several years, Ms A received an income from a critical illness  policy and 
was able to maintain her mortgage  payments; that changed in 2012  when  the policy provider 
stopped paying benefits to Ms A.
Since that time, Ms As financial situation has steadily worsened.  Despite  her considerable 
efforts, the mortgage fell into arrears in 2014,  and has been so ever since.  Ms A and Lloyds 
have maintained a dialogue over the years,  but by the latter part of 2017, Lloyds was 
becoming more and more concerned that Ms As situation was not one that would be 
resolved. It told Ms A by email in August 2017 that without  a revised proposal from her to 
address the arrears, it would begin  the litigation process.
Lloyds did start court  proceedings in October 2017,  sending all of the relevant paperwork to 
the mortgaged  property address. The case went to a hearing  in June 2018 and the court  
found in Lloyds favour. But the first Ms A knew of this was in a phone conversation with the 
bank on 6 July 2018. She immediately complained, saying,  in essence:
the decision to take her to court was itself unfair, given  her personal circumstances;
it was wrong of Lloyds  to send the court papers to the mortgaged property when it knew 
she lived elsewhere; 
Lloyds evidence to the court contained numerous untruths; and
Lloyds had operated in breach of the Equality Act.
Lloyds largely rejected  the complaint, but did accept  that it had misled  Ms A into thinking her 
registered address  could  be changed  by telephone when it had to be writing. For this, it sent 
her £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
When the complaint  came  to us, our adjudicator  didnt think  that was enough. She thought 
the legal  action was justified in itself, but said Lloyds  should have been more alert to Ms As 
Ref: DRN96782352limited ability  to carry out what for the rest of us are routine matters; for example, writing  and 
sending a letter to notify the bank of her new address.  
She recommended Lloyds  pay Ms A £650, on top of what it had already paid her. She also 
asked the bank to make  a reasonable adjustment to its procedures  to make it easier for 
Ms A to register  her parents address on the mortgage. Lastly, she asked Lloyds to reassess 
Ms As present situation to decide how best to move forward.
Lloyds agreed  to the adjudicators recommendations, but Ms A has asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Shes unhappy  that the adjudicator hasnt  addressed her 
arguments around the truthfulness  or otherwise of the banks evidence to the court in the 
possession proceedings.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the complaint. Were not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police  their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual  
disputes between  businesses and their customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  
of the courts. Were  impartial,  and we dont take either sides  instructions  on how we 
investigate a complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant.
It seems  to me that the underlying crux of this complaint is centred on two main points:
Lloyds decision to begin possession proceedings given what it knew  about Ms As wider  
situation, including her legal claim against her critical  illness provider; and
Lloyds sending all of the relevant paperwork to the mortgaged property, leaving Ms A 
unaware it had taken her to court and allegedly lied in its evidence.
Ill begin with Lloyds treatment of Ms A as a borrower in financial difficulties, culminating in 
the decision to litigate. The rules of mortgage  regulation require lenders to consider each  set 
of individual  circumstances  fairly  to decide  if forbearance should  be provided. Wed  expect a 
lender to consider offering help to consumers going through  a temporary problem,  especially  
in situations where  it can be seen their situation is likely to improve.
Its also important to remember  what forbearance  is; its a concession on a lenders part to 
refrain temporarily from strict adherence to the contract terms, rather  than a variation of 
them; and its not a contract term in its own right. 
The underlying difficulty in Ms As case is that her financial  difficulties have  been  anything 
but temporary. More  than five years have passed  since her mortgage  fell into arrears, and 
whilst Ms A has unquestionably done  her best to pay what  she could  when she could, I can 
understand if Lloyds  eventually  concluded there  was little prospect of the overall  arrears  
position being resolved  in the foreseeable future. 
Im aware Ms A believes theres  a good chance of her winning her legal case against her 
critical illness provider, and that this would provide compensation  enough to pay the arrears 
in full. But it wouldnt be right for me to reach a decision on such  a presumption.  Nor would it 
Ref: DRN96782353be appropriate for me to say that Lloyds should  have done the same  or continued  to provide 
forbearance whilst awaiting the outcome  of a case that has already been  ongoing  for some 
years.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Lloyds in a final decision on Ms As 
complaint, regardless  of her situation. The court action will undoubtedly have been 
unwelcome to Ms A but in all the circumstances I cant say the decision to litigate was 
unfairly taken. 
Ms A feels that due to the correspondence going to the mortgaged property address, she 
wasnt warned of the possession action. That being so, Ms As effectively asking me to 
decide what the court might have done  differently if she had known of the legal action and 
had been able to attend court  and fight her corner. 
Its not for me to second-guess what decision the court might  have  reached  if Ms A had 
known about the legal  action and had been  there  to put her case  and correct  what she 
regards as the false evidence Lloyds had presented  to the court. Only the court itself could 
do that, and I have no role to play in making that happen. 
Ms A can achieve that by going back to the court  in question, explaining to it all of the 
grievances shes brought to us, and asking  the court to decide  if the possession  order  should  
be rescinded and appropriate redress ordered for the consequences that followed. 
No other  party but the court (and certainly not I) can decide if the possession  order  was 
unfairly granted because Lloyds didnt use the address where  Ms A was living  for 
correspondence, and relied on allegedly false evidence to make its case. All I can decide is 
whether the possession proceedings were fairly  commenced, and for the reasons already 
set out, Im satisfied they were.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that Lloyds should  make it easier for Ms A to record her parents 
address on the mortgage account for correspondence purposes. Indeed,  if it hasnt already 
done so, I consider that the bank should  record the address without requiring any further 
action from Ms A.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that a fresh assessment of Ms As current  circumstances is 
needed. I cant order that as part of my decision, however, as it would require me to order  
the bank and Ms A to do something, and I have no power to order  Ms A to do anything.  I can 
merely suggest it, and hope that Ms A, perhaps  with the help of a proxy, can find a way to 
re-engage with Lloyds without recriminations over what  has gone before.
That leaves the question of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
Lloyds not being flexible  enough in making  it possible for Ms A to record  her change  of 
address. Our adjudicator  assessed that at £650,  and in all the circumstances, I find that to 
fair.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from the submissions the force and eloquence with which Ms A has 
brought the complaint. 
Ref: DRN96782354Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. Be that as it may,  I have  to 
take a different approach.  Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes 
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done  here.
Ms A doesnt have  to accept my final decision, and if she doesnt  neither she nor Lloyds  will 
be bound  by it. Subject  to any time limits  or other restrictions a court might impose, Ms As 
ability to take legal action in pursuit  of her claim wont have been prejudiced  by our 
consideration of her complaint. 
Its up to Ms A whether she does that. But, as Ive already  said, only the courts can decide  if 
the same  outcome would  have resulted if Ms A had known the legal  action was being 
pursued. The court is also arguably  better placed  than me to consider whether Lloyds 
actions amount to a breach of the Equalities Act.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to:
pay Ms A £650; and
if ait hasnt already  done so, record Ms As parents address on the mortgage account for 
correspondence purposes.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9678235