K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that a car she financed through an agreement with Close  Brothers Limited 
(Close Brothers) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Miss B took receipt of a used car in December 2017. She financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the car had already 
covered 38,000 miles and was a little over nine years old.
Miss B said she had issues with the car early on. It was losing power and the engine  
management light had illuminated. She took it to a garage used by the dealership  in April 
2018. The garage said the crankshaft pulley would  need replacing  but they said the work  
wasnt covered under  Miss Bs warranty. Miss B says they explained there was no 
immediate rush to have the work  done  so she continued to drive it. But in December she 
contacted the dealership as she was concerned  the car wouldnt pass an MOT  and 
disappointed she hadnt heard from them.
She says that as approval was provided by the warranty company the repair work was 
eventually carried out in December 2018 and Miss B drove the car away.  But on 5 January 
2019 the cars engine failed. The crankshaft broke  and a recovery engineer  noted there was 
a hole in the engine and crankshaft pieces scattered over the sub frame.
Miss B said that Close Brothers were responsible for the quality of the car and that they 
shouldve repaired it when  she reported the failure  in April 2018, only a few months  after 
shed taken receipt of the vehicle.
But Close Brothers  didnt  think that was the case. They  said as the failure had happened 
after Miss B had had been in possession of the car for so long, it was for her to demonstrate 
the problem was there when the car was supplied to her: when they were responsible for the 
quality of the car. They werent persuaded that was the case  and they thought it was clear  
shed contributed to the problem by running the car with a known fault.
So Miss B referred her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided her view. She 
noted there was a lack of documented evidence of what happened but she was persuaded 
that Miss B had discussed  the issue with the dealership as early  as March 2018  as she 
noted Miss B had called  the dealership and the repairing garage on several occasions and 
that the car was eventually attended to in April 2018.  She also noted that the dealership 
hadnt disputed  Miss Bs recollection of the dates shed reported the issue  to them  and she 
thought they wouldve been  likely  to if the dates were incorrect. She thought it was therefore  
likely the fault Miss B complained of was present or developing in the car when she took 
receipt of it.
She went on to consider  the repair that had apparently been completed on the vehicle and 
she thought it was likely that this repair hadnt  been successful and had resulted  in the 
current engine failure. So she thought  it would  now be fair for Close  Brothers to allow Miss B 
to reject the car and terminate her finance agreement. She thought they should also refund  
any finance instalments  she had made since the vehicles engine  failed  in January 2019 and 
that they should refund the deposit Miss B had put down on the car. She said it was clear  
that Miss B had been  inconvenienced by this problem and Close Brothers  should  therefore 
pay her £100 in compensation.
Ref: DRN96011332Close Brothers didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. They said the failure in April had 
occurred after Miss B had covered 4,000  miles in the car and they didnt  think  this wouldve 
been possible if the car was faulty  when  supplied. They also thought  that Miss B had 
contributed to the problem with the car by driving a further 10,000 miles in it after the initial 
diagnosis of a fault. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Close Brothers  so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss B. The car 
here was around  nine years old and had travelled 38,000 miles so its fair to say it would 
have some wear and tear. But I think its reasonable to expect the engine to work properly.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Since the adjudicator provided  her view Miss B has produced text messages she had with 
the dealership  in March 2018.  Its clear  she reported  issues with the engine  management  
light and the car losing power at this time and that as a result  of the subsequent garage 
Ref: DRN96011333investigation a faulty crankshaft pulley was identified in April 2018. That was only four 
months after Miss B had taken receipt  of the car I think  its fair to say its most  likely that fault 
was present or developing  at the point the car was supplied.
Regardless of the warranty the car shouldve  been  repaired at that point  and at no cost to 
Miss B. But the car wasnt and I dont  think it would be fair to hold Miss B responsible for any 
subsequent deterioration in the engine as the business had failed to attend to the fault.  
When a car is faulty, at the point of supply, legislation allows the business one opportunity  to 
fix the problem.  But if the problem isnt resolved  they should allow the consumer  to reject the 
car. I think  that repair opportunity wasnt taken until December 2018  when the dealership 
apparently replaced  the engine and, as the subsequent catastrophic  failure  happened  only 
days after the repair was completed and appears to have been  for a similar engine related 
issue, I think its reasonable to suggest  the repair was unsuccessful.
In those circumstances its therefore  reasonable to ask Close Brothers  to allow  Miss B to 
reject the car as Im persuaded there is evidence the car was faulty when  supplied  and 
repairs have been  unsuccessful.
Its usual for this service  to recommend that any deposit that was paid is refunded.  I see no 
reason to deviate from that here. I also agree with the adjudicators  suggestion that, in the 
circumstances, a payment  of £100 is reasonable to compensate Miss B for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced. Shes not had use of the car since 5 January so Close 
Brothers should return any finance  instalments paid from this time and add 8% simple 
interest to those payments but Im not asking  them to refund any further  finance  instalments 
as I think Miss B had reasonable  use of the car in the preceding  months.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss B
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
return monthly finance instalments paid from 5 January 2019 to the date of 
settlement and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
pay Miss B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes  been 
caused
remove any adverse information  that may have  been reported  to Miss Bs credit file 
in relation to this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9601133