K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Vitality Health Limited  declined his claim against his private  medical
insurance policy.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 8 January 2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Vitality  hadnt treated Mr D fairly  in 
declining his claim and what I proposed  it should do to put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr D didnt provide a substantive response to my provisional decision.  Vitality disagreed  with 
my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
Its not sure why I concluded that the information  it gave to Mr D about podiatrists  
was poor. 
Its up to its registered providers to ensure contact information is correct and its 
unrealistic to expect it to have up to date information for its specialists.
Its registration  process  is the mechanism by which it checks that its working with 
healthcare providers who are qualified and competent and it cant always add a 
provider that a member  would like to use.
The podiatrist who treated Mr D was derecognised by it in 2016  and has not 
attempted to re-register  with it.
It pays for eligible  treatment and doesnt know which treatments specialists offer or 
what equipment they have.
There are several treatments for Mortons neuroma.
It would expect  a podiatrist to make a good faith effort to treat a condition  or to 
refer the patient.
Mr D should have  reverted to it to ask if the podiatrist he wanted  to treat him was 
registered with it. 
Its contrary to its terms and conditions to agree to pay for treatment with an 
unrecognised provider.
It may have been able to offer Mr D an alternative provider a little further  away.
Ref: DRN99475652my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy say that it aim(s) to offer increased choice and 
access to high quality,  private facilities.  I think the starting point for that is the provision of 
adequate, up-to-date information about  specialists.  
For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision,  I think that the information Vitality gave 
to Mr D about podiatrists  it recognised was poor. It gave him the names  of one podiatry clinic 
and four individual podiatrists and phone numbers  for the clinic and two of the individuals. In 
fact, two of the individuals  names related to the same person.  And none  of the podiatrists 
recognised by Vitality  offered the treatment Mr D needed.
Im surprised by Vitalitys comment that its unrealistic  to expect it to have up-to-date 
information about its providers. I think thats  what Mr D relied on it for, in the circumstances 
that arose here.  
I quite understand  that Vitality has a registration process and, as I noted in my provisional  
decision, Vitality recognised the podiatrist who treated Mr D up to February  2016.  Vitality 
hasnt offered any specific reason why it wouldnt recognise the podiatrist  who treated Mr D.
Mr Ds policy  provides  that he should contact  Vitality before treatment to ensure the 
treatment is covered. Mr D didnt do that. But, in the particular circumstances here, I dont 
think that should be fatal to his claim. I can quite understand why Mr D proceeded as he did, 
as Vitality hadnt given  him adequate and up-to-date information for any recognised  
podiatrists who could help him.
Ive considered all thats  been said but, for the reasons  set out above  and in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think that Vitality  treated  Mr D fairly in declining  his claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I now require Vitality Health Limited to:
Reimburse Mr D his out-of-pocket  expenses for his podiatry treatment, 
which I understand are £2,150 (subject to the policy  excess  and policy 
limits).
Pay Mr D compensation of £100  in relation to his distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99475653extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Vitality Health Limited declined his claim against his private  medical 
insurance policy.
background
On 10 January 2019, Mr D submitted on online claim  to Vitality in relation  to treatment for 
suspected Mortons  neuromas in his foot. Vitality  told him that he needed a GP referral.  
Mr D wasnt happy about the delay that would cause. Vitality offered Mr D its GP service.
On 26 January 2019, a Vitality GP referred Mr D to a podiatrist. On 29 January 2019, 
Vitality gave Mr D information about  podiatrists it recognised. Mr D arranged treatment with 
a podiatrist other than the ones named by Vitality. He had treatment in February 2019 and 
submitted invoices to Vitality for payment. Vitality  declined  the claim.  It said that the 
treatment wasnt carried out by a podiatrist it recognised.
Mr D wants Vitality to reimburse him £2,150  for the cost of his treatment. He says he has 
"full cover"  for therapies, including podiatry, so he assumed  hed have cover  for all of the 
treatments provided by a qualified  podiatrist. Mr D says that Vitality recognises  a handful of 
podiatrists in his area and the information  it has about them is poor.  Mr D says that none of 
the podiatrists  recognised by Vitality  provides the treatment he received. He felt that the 
lack of support  from Vitality left him with little option  but to make his own decision. He feels  
that Vitalitys handling of his claim is unfair.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Vitality had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Ds claim.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
The investigator is biased towards Vitality.
Vitality provided documentation  that states that "full cover" is provided for podiatry 
and didnt mention  that the podiatrist had to be "recognised by Vitality.
He didnt receive clear  advice in the phone call on 10 January 2019:  Vitality gave him a 
small list of podiatrists with no supporting information  and none of them  provided 
cryosurgery for his condition.
The GP didnt refer him for non-surgical   treatment.
Vitality hasnt responded to his question  about its selection process for recognised 
therapist and hasnt  explained why the podiatrist who treated him was no longer 
recognised.
The investigator said that the documentation to which Mr D had referred  only provided a 
summary of cover  and referred to the terms and conditions. He said that Vitality  had 
given Mr D clear  information in the phone calls. The investigator said that he wouldnt 
expect Vitality to share commercially  sensitive information with Mr D.
Ref: DRN99475654Mr D asked that an ombudsman consider  his complaint and added that the documentation  
hed referred to is important and required  by the regulator. He said that Vitality didnt 
explain anywhere whats meant by "recognised.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr D has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Hes provided  detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust 
that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues.
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy, which  says as follows:
"THERAPIES COVER  
WHATS COVERED
Charges  for the following therapies  or consultations  after referral  by a GP or consultant
[. ..]
   chiropody/podiatry"
"WHATS NOT COVERED
[. ..]
  treatment given  by a therapist  [.. .] not recognised  by us."
"EXCLUSIONS-  WHATS NOT COVERED
[. ..]
TREATMENTS AND TESTS
We will not pay for the following treatments:
any treatment provided  by, or undertaken whilst under the care of. a [.. .] 
therapist [.. .]who  is not recognised by us. We many not recognise  a 
consultant  who, among other  reasons:
-has had their permission to practice  suspended or restricted  by a 
professional or regulatory  body, or 
-charges  more  than we think is reasonable compared to other consultants 
with a similar level of expertise.
To become recognised  by us, providers must meet our recognition  criteria and agree to 
our terms  of recognition."
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN99475655I dont think that Vitality acted fairly in declining Mr Ds claims. Ill explain why:
The reference in the documentation to "full cover doesnt  mean  that Mr D has 
cover for all of the treatments provided  by a qualified podiatrist, as Mr D suggests. 
Any claim  by Mr D is still subject to the terms of the policy.
As Ive set out above, the terms and conditions of the policy provide that Vitality 
doesnt cover treatment by a therapist  it doesnt recognise. The podiatrist Mr D 
chose isnt currently recognised by Vitality:  he was recognised up to February  
2016. Vitality is acting within the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy in declining 
the claim but I dont  think that leads to a fair outcome  in the particular  
circumstances  of  this case.
Vitality provided Mr D with the names  of one podiatry clinic and four individual 
podiatrists. Mr D says that the information  he got from Vitality about  recognised  
podiatrist was poor. I agree.  Vitality didnt provide contact  phone  number for two of 
the individuals,   so Mr D had only the name of those  podiatrists. And two of the 
names related to the same  podiatrist.
Mr D says that the podiatrists recognised by Vitality didnt offer the treatment he 
received. Ive checked this myself.  Of the three phone numbers Vitality gave Mr D, 
the clinic said that it doesnt offer cryotherapy  for Mortons  neuroma, one podiatrist 
no longer provided private treatment as he works in a hospital  and has done so for 
about a year and the remaining podiatrist didnt return the call. On balance, I think 
that Vitality didnt give Mr D adequate  and up-to-date information about podiatrists 
it recognised.
In the circumstances, I can quite understand  that Mr D found a podiatrist himself. 
One course of action  Mr D could  have taken was to ask Vitality to recognise the 
podiatrist hed found. He didnt do that but I dont think  that should be fatal to his 
claim. Thats because  I think its likely  that if Mr D had contacted Vitality it would 
have agreed to cover the cost, up to its usual  limits.
putting things  right- what I intend  to direct Vitality to do
In the particular circumstances of this case and against the background that Vitality didnt 
give Mr D adequate and up-to-date information for any recognised  podiatrist that could help 
him, I think that Vitality  should reimburse  Mr D his out-of-pocket expenses  for his podiatry 
treatment, which I understand is £2,150, subject to the policy  excess and policy  limits.
The terms of the policy Ive set out above refer to not recognising providers who charge 
more than Vitality thinks is reasonable, compared  to others with a similar level of experience.  
I dont think it would  be appropriate for Vitality  to pay Mr D only the level of fees it would pay 
for recognised podiatrists,  if that is less than he was charged. Thats because,  as far as Mr D 
was concerned, Vitality  didnt have any recognised podiatrists in his area, so a reduction  of 
fees to a level Vitality  considers reasonable would be arbitrary in this case.
Mr D received poor service from Vitality in that it didnt provide him with adequate and up-to-date  
information about podiatrists it recognised who could  help him at a time he was in pain. Then  it 
unreasonably refused  his claim.  He was troubled and annoyed  by that. In the circumstances,  
I think fair compensation  for Mr Ds distress and inconvenience in this case  is £100.
Ref: DRN99475656my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  I intend to direct
Vitality Health Limited to:
Reimburse Mr D his out-of-pocket expenses for his podiatry treatment, which  
I understand are £2,150 (subject to the policy excess and policy  limits).
Pay Mr D compensation of £100 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN9947565