K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained about Domestic and General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of a claim 
under his boiler protection insurance policy. 
background
In March 2019 Mr Ts boiler broke  down and he contacted D&G, who sent an engineer  to 
inspect it. The engineer provided  a report and said that it wasnt  economical to repair. Mr T 
then paid around £3,000  for a new boiler.  D&G paid him £750 towards his new boiler  and 
said this was the maximum it would pay in these  circumstances,  under the terms of the 
policy. 
Mr T was unhappy with D&Gs service and complained. He said the engineer  broke the 
boiler when he came to repair it because it had briefly restarted before the engineer  arrived.  
Mr T also said because annual  service  notifications werent sent by D&G these were never 
arranged and his boiler wasnt serviced  for two years. He feels  this contributed to the 
breakdown and also meant that D&G breached its contract with him. Mr T was also unhappy 
that D&G  kept referring  him to different departments and to the boiler  manufacturer instead 
of dealing with his complaint He added that the amount D&G offered wasnt as much as the 
cost of a replacement boiler.  
In addition to the £750  it paid towards  the boiler, D&G offered to refund Mr T £159.74, which 
it said represented the amount he had paid for the annual boiler  service  for the two years it 
wasnt carried out. It also offered £20 for the trouble and upset this matter  has caused and 
for being transferred to different departments when calling. 
Mr T wasnt happy with D&Gs  response and complained to us. He said D&Gs engineer 
broke the boiler. He added that D&G  breached its contract with him in that it continued to 
collect a monthly premium without providing a full service which included an annual boiler 
service. He said he wanted a full premium refund and a contribution towards the cost of the 
new boiler. He also said D&G should pay £250 to cover  the cost of him making calls and 
sending emails to it. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Mr T was put in a worse position than he wouldve otherwise 
been in by the fact that the annual service hadnt  been carried  out. He said this was 
because, according  to the only available expert evidence, the reason why the boiler wasnt 
economical to repair  was because an essential  part- the printed circuit board (PCB)- had 
become obsolete. He also didnt think that an annual  service wouldve identified this issue, 
even if one had been carried out. 
Mr T didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the engineers actions 
clearly damaged the boiler beyond repair and also that D&G  should compensate him for 
breaching its contract with him by damaging  his boiler and not carrying  out the annual 
service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
Ref: DRN94501642Mr Ts complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to him but Ill explain my 
reasons for doing so.
Mr Ts policy covers  repairs to his boiler  and it also says that D&G will pay up to £750 per 
year for repairs or towards a new boiler.  And his cover included an annual boiler service as 
an additional  extra.
Mr T said that D&G  breached its contract with him because it didnt carry out the annual  
boiler service. D&G accepts that Mr T had opted  for this additional extra  and also that the 
last service was in 2016. It said that it was for Mr T to call and arrange  these  appointments 
and that this was on his renewal documents. Mr T has provided  copies of some of his 
renewal letters but I couldnt see that they did say that it is for him to arrange his annual  
service. Nevertheless, I note that D&G  has refunded the cost of the annual service for two 
years and I think this is fair and reasonable because Mr T didnt benefit from that service. 
Mr T said that he should receive a full premium refund  over those two years but I dont think  
that should be the case. If D&G were to refund his premium, as if his policy never existed,  
then it wouldnt have  any obligation to pay Mr T anything under his policy and this includes 
the £750 it paid towards  his boiler.  As the only part of the policy  that wasnt  offered was the 
boiler service, I think its fair that this is the only part that should  be refunded. 
Mr T said that had the annual boiler  service taken  place  his boiler wouldnt have been 
declared as being beyond economic repair (BER). He said the reason for this is because 
the condensate trap wouldnt have been  allowed to become blocked, which is what caused  
damage to other parts of the boiler.  
D&G said an annual  service is a visual assessment of the boiler and flue and also includes a 
measurement of emissions.  From  what the engineer said an annual service  wouldve 
included an appliance  performance check,  a gas pressure and flue check  and also a check 
of some of the safety devices, heat exchangers, seals,  burners and controls. So, based  on 
this, neither the condensate trap nor the PCB wouldve  been  included in that check. So, on 
balance, I dont think the annual service wouldve prevented the boiler  being  declared BER.  
In any case, regardless  of what the annual  service involves, without any expert evidence to 
suggest otherwise,  it isnt possible for me to conclude that the annual  service would have, on 
balance, prevented the boiler being  declared BER two years later. 
Mr T also said it was the engineer that broke the boiler. He said that when the engineer 
loosened the condensate  tube this caused the heat exchanger  to flood with water and the 
PCB to trip and blow out. Ive considered the engineers  report, which as far as I am aware  is 
the only expert evidence available,  which states that there  were  four replacement  parts  of 
the boiler which were  needed - the heat exchanger, burner door seals, PCB and transformer. 
The report  doesnt  support what Mr T said and as it is the only expert evidence available,  I 
think it was fair and reasonable for D&G  to rely on it. And as the PCB was the part that was 
obsolete (according to the manufacturer) the boiler  was deemed to be BER. 
D&G paid Mr T £750 towards his new boiler. This is in line with its policy  terms so I think it 
acted reasonably in doing  so. 
Mr T was also unhappy with D&Gs service. He said he had to keep sending chasing letters 
and he had to ask for its final response letter three times. D&G  offered Mr T £20 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. I note that D&G was quick to reimburse Mr T the 
Ref: DRN94501643cost of his annual service  and also to settle  the claim. Taking everything into account, I think  
the compensation D&G offered is in line with what  I wouldve awarded in these 
circumstances so I wont be asking  it to pay any more. 
I appreciate Mr T will find this decision disappointing but for the reasons Ive given above I 
think D&G has already  done enough  to put things right. So I think  its dealt with Mr T fairly 
and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9450164