K820x#14complaint
Mrs F and Miss S complaint that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt handle their claim 
well after they were  burgled. They say it took too long and involved too many people,  and 
that they havent received  the full value of their claim.
background
Mrs F and Miss S were  burgled in January  2018.  They contacted Aviva,  which accepted  their 
claim, which included  a number of items of jewellery.
Aviva asked a loss adjuster (C) to help validate the claim. Miss S complained about the time 
this was taking  about a month after she and Mrs F first contacted Aviva.  It took C a further 
five weeks or so to approve the claim. Shortly after that Miss S and Mrs F received a cash 
settlement for some jewellery  that couldnt  be replaced  and a voucher for her to get 
replacements for other items. 
One of the items was an expensive watch, which had to be ordered.  When Miss S went to 
collect it., she said it wasnt a like for like exchange.  So she took a different model, which  
she says is the same  as the one that was stolen.
That watch  was more  expensive than the one Aviva thought it was supplying. When its 
discounted value  was taken off the voucher Miss S had, she didnt have enough credit left to 
replace the other items that were to be bought  using  the voucher.
Miss S complained, and at one point Aviva offered to increase the cash  settlement to cover 
this  but later withdrew this offer.
Miss S and Mrs F complained. Aviva  acknowledged  it had made mistakes,  and offered, 
eventually, £300  compensation  for this. But it said it wouldnt increase the amount it would 
pay for the claim.
Miss S and Mrs F brought their complaint to us, and our investigator thought Aviva had been 
fair in its actions. He thought the offer of compensation was about  right,  and that it had made  
reasonable arrangements to replace the watch,  given how it was described  on the insurance 
policy schedule  which lists limits  and, in this case, describes the watch and how much its 
covered for. 
Miss S and Mrs F remain unhappy so Ive been  asked  to decide this complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues here,  and Ill deal with them  separately.
claim amount
Ive looked at the policy Miss S and Mrs F had when they were burgled,  and the schedule  
that went with it  which gives details of limits  within various categories  of cover.
Ref: DRN90743052Under personal belongings theres  a gold watch with a value of £5,756. Thats  the 
maximum Aviva needs to pay out for this particular item.
Theres also a general limit of £2,000 for unspecified  personal  belongings  which is enough 
to cover all the other items of jewellery  included in the claim. Mrs F and Miss S also needed 
to pay the first £200 of any claim.
Miss S wanted to replace  her jewellery, so opted  to take a voucher she could use to get 
replacements. Insurers often get a discount from a jeweller thats not available  to members 
of the public. That can mean  a customer gets a voucher with a higher face value than its 
actually cost. In Mrs F and Miss Ss case,  that meant Miss S got a voucher for the watch  with 
a value of £6,058, even  though shed  only insured  the watch  for £5,756.  She also got a 
further sum on the voucher to replace some of her other jewellery.
Aviva says its specialist jeweller  ordered  a replacement watch based on Miss Ss 
description. It cost at retail  value  about  £6,350  about £600 pounds more  than Miss S had 
insured the watch  for. But the discount Aviva negotiated reduced the difference  between the 
retail price  of the watch and the maximum voucher value to about £300.  So  if this had 
been the correct watch   Miss S would have had to pay the difference to get it (or use some 
of remaining  voucher value if thats what she chose to do). 
I think that was a fair approach from Aviva.  Its effectively paid the maximum its obliged to 
towards replacing the watch, given the limits on Mrs F and Miss Ss schedule.
I appreciate Miss S says she thought the watch would simply be replaced  but I wouldnt 
expect Aviva to pay more than the policy limits. So even if the correct watch  had been  
identified initially, Miss S didnt have  enough  cover on the policy to replace with no cost to 
her.
As it turned out, the first watch wasnt an exact replacement for Miss Ss watch   hers had 
been somewhat  larger. So the difference between the maximum Aviva needed to pay and 
the cost of the watch was more. Miss S chose that watch  and the retail  value  was deducted 
form the overall voucher limit. That seems  fair to me.
I do understand that Miss S was disappointed not to have much money left on her voucher 
for other items. But I think Aviva has paid the claim in line with the terms and conditions  in 
the policy.
handling the claim
Aviva has acknowledged  it didnt handle this claim very well, including  using  one company to 
validate the claim, and another to settle  it. And it appears it gave  Miss S some  incorrect 
information that led her to believe  shed  get some  more  cash towards her jewellery. That 
was a mistake, and in such circumstances Id expect  Aviva  to make sure Mrs F and Miss S 
were put in the position theyd have  been  in if the mistake hadnt been made.
Aviva has done that  in that its paid the correct claim  value. 
Im also aware that Miss S was told shed get a replacement watch, and says she shouldnt 
have to pay towards it. From the calls Ive heard this appears to be a genuine mistake  as 
Ref: DRN90743053Aviva thought at the time it had ordered  the correct watch. But, as Ive said above, Miss S 
had somewhat under-insured her watch  so shed always have had to choose either a 
different (cheaper) model  or make a contribution  towards the replacement. 
Miss S also said no-one explained to either her or Mrs F that if she used more  of the voucher 
value towards the watch shed  have less left for other jewellery. In one of the calls I listened  
to it was explained to Mrs F that the voucher had a particular value for the watch  plus some 
more credit for other  items.  It was also explained  to Mrs F that the voucher would be 
accepted by several other jewellers  so they werent restricted  to only using one specialist  
watch retailer.
Aviva has paid Mrs F and Miss S £300  overall in compensation for the way the claim was 
handled. I think thats fair. As our investigator said, making any sort of insurance claim can 
be stressful   because  being burgled  is. And Im satisfied Aviva has paid compensation to 
make up for any extra distress and inconvenience  it caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F and Miss S
to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9074305