K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) is pursing him for an 
unenforceable debt. He wants  the outstanding balance  written off and compensation for the 
trouble and upset  this matter has caused.
background
Mr H entered into historical  credit  card agreements with three  separate  financial providers, 
which have been  assigned to Cabot. It has been in contact with Mr H since  2011 regarding  
one of the agreements and since 2017 regarding the other two.
Mr H says that his debts are not enforceable because he hasnt been provided with a copy of 
the signed consumer credit  agreement and other contractual documentation. He believes 
that Cabot cannot pursue him for the debt without these. He also doesnt think  Cabot has the 
right in law to chase the debt and appointed  a solicitor to look into this matter  for him.
The solicitor  complained to Cabot, on behalf  of Mr H. He said Cabot had failed to provide  the 
original credit card agreements and as such these debts are unenforceable  and so Cabot  
should not be pursuing Mr H for them. He further complained the communication  with regard 
to the collection  of these debts to be aggressive.  Further concerns were raised about the 
affordability of the original  credit agreements.
Cabot says it requested  copies of the original  agreement from the original lenders but has 
been unable  to provide  them  to Mr H. It says it accepts the view that the debts are 
unenforceable but says this is neither the same  as, nor an admission that the debts do not 
exist or that Mr H isnt responsible for or expected to repay any outstanding  debts.  It says it 
provided Mr H with a Notice of Assignment for each account and this evidences  the transfer 
of the rights  to collect the debts to itself.  It also doesnt accept any of the correspondence to 
be of an aggressive nature.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary, he 
said that Cabot  doesnt need  to provide an original copy of the agreement. Cabot was 
entitled to collect  the debt as it had been  assigned  the debt. Only a court can decide if the 
debt is enforceable  and Mr H would need  to take his complaint there. He didnt agree the 
correspondence he reviewed was of an aggressive nature and so didnt agree Cabot had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr H was unhappy with this view. His solicitor says Mr H finds  it very unfair that Cabot 
should pursue  him for a debt it cant prove exists. He asks for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so Ive reached  the same view as the investigator.  I know  this 
will disappoint Mr H and his solicitor. Ill explain why.
I think it important to say at the outset that Ive only considered aspects of Mr Hs complaint 
that relate to the actions taken by Cabot. Ive not looked at the concerns raised about 
unaffordable or irresponsible lending by the original lenders.  Any complaints in this regard 
should be raised with them.
Ref: DRN93476182Mr H and his solicitor  raise a number of legal arguments to show  why Cabot is not entitled  to 
pursue him for the credit card debt.  He says the original credit agreement  is not enforceable, 
as he has not been provided  with the original documentation. Mr H doesnt appear to dispute  
that he had a debt with any of the third parties,  he doesnt say he didnt sign an agreement 
with them,  or that he was unaware of the terms; rather the original agreement  is missing so 
not enforceable.
As the investigator  pointed out in his view, this service cannot decide  whether a credit card 
agreement is enforceable. We decide  cases based  on what is fair and reasonable,  and do 
not decide issues of law. These issues are decided  by a court. If Mr H wishes  to pursue 
these issues, he should issue  legal proceedings.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  provided by Cabot and Im satisfied there  is evidence  
to show Cabot bought these debts  from the respective lenders and properly issued the 
notice of assignment in each case,  to Mr Hs given address.  I havent  seen anything to 
suggest Cabot  shouldnt ask Mr H to make  payments towards these debts.
Ive carefully considered  the communication between Cabot and Mr H. I have reviewed  the 
frequency and content and Im not persuaded there is anything here to suggest 
communication of an aggressive nature.
From what  Ive seen Cabot have acted  fairly  and reasonably since purchasing the debts 
from the original lenders  and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347618