K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains he was charged  an early repayment  charge (ERC) when he redeemed his 
mortgage with Bank  of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) even though he was told he 
wouldnt have to pay this due to previous poor service.  He is also unhappy with how his 
complaint was handled.
background
Mr N was looking to switch to a new mortgage  product  with Halifax. His existing mortgage 
was subject to an ERC  if he redeemed it on or before 28 February  2019.
Unfortunately he received  poor service  when making his enquiries with Halifax.
He spoke to a Halifax employee on 14 December  2018; Ill call that employee Ms H. Mr N 
says  after explaining he was disappointed with the poor service he received  he was told 
by Ms H that if he remortgaged he wouldnt be charged an ERC and if any fee was 
mentioned he could pop back in the branch and the fee would be removed.
Mr N proceeded with a new application  elsewhere but on 17 January 2019 his solicitor  told 
him that an ERC  would be payable to redeem  the Halifax mortgage. 
Mr N visited the branch to get this sorted, he says the bank manager told him hed get back 
to him that day, but didnt  so he raised a formal complaint.
Mr N is unhappy with Halifaxs  response  to his complaint  as it mentioned  that Ms H said she 
never advised him the ERC would be waived. However, when Mr N visited  the branch again 
and spoke to her, Ms H told him she never  mentioned the phone call to the complaint  
handler. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it was clear  Halifax 
made an error when  booking in Mr Ns appointment to discuss a new mortgage  rate, as this 
was booked in with a loan adviser  instead of a mortgage adviser.  When  Mr N eventually got 
an appointment booked with a mortgage adviser,  it was cancelled and he was told he could 
go online  to apply. The adjudicator felt unable to comment  on what happened in the phone 
call with Ms H as there was no call recording.  But he felt as Mr N had been told by his 
solicitor that he was going to be charged  an ERC and chose to go ahead with the 
remortgage that he made the choice to complete on his new mortgage knowing that an ERC 
would be payable. He felt Halifax handled the complaint correctly and that its offer of £100 
for the distress and inconvenience and £1 for travel expenses was reasonable.
Mr N disagreed. He felt the bank didnt investigate his complaint properly, in particular, 
surrounding recollections of the call of 14 December.
The adjudicator issued a second  view. He said he didnt feel there was evidence to support 
Mr Ns account that Ms H told him that an ERC wouldn't be payable and if he did have to pay 
it to go back to the branch and the branch  would  sort it. 
Mr N disagrees.  He feels all calls should  be recorded and yet this one wasn't  as the bank is 
hiding its fault.
Ref: DRN90399192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed by both parties that Mr N received poor service when trying to switch  mortgage 
products. Halifax has paid £100  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused 
and £1 for the travel  costs of a wasted trip. I think this is a fair response to this part of the 
complaint.
Mr N, however, wants the ERC he paid back.  He says he was told he wouldnt have to pay 
this by Ms H. Ms H has said she wouldnt have said this because she wouldnt comment  on 
a mortgage settlement figure because she isnt qualified to do so.
Unfortunately the call between Mr N and Ms H wasnt  recorded. Halifax  isnt required to 
record all calls and so I draw no adverse inference from the lack of recording although I do 
understand how frustrating the lack of recording is to Mr N. Without a call recording I 
therefore need to decide  based on what Ive seen  whether  or not I think Mr N was told he 
wouldnt have to pay an ERC. Although I believe this is what Mr N thinks  he was told I think 
there must have been a misunderstanding  between him and Ms H as I dont think  Ms H 
would have told him he could avoid paying the ERC if he redeemed early and went 
elsewhere. This is because it wasnt within Ms Hs area of expertise to comment  on the ERC 
and also the appropriate way for Ms H to deal with a complaint about  Mr N being  let down by 
poor service would be to raise a complaint not to suggest the ERC could be waived.
When Mr Ns solicitor told him that the redemption statement included  an ERC I think Mr N 
should have double checked his understanding. He did try to do this but Halifax  didnt get 
back to him in time.  Although it didnt get back to him in time, I think it did deal with his 
complaint fairly promptly. Therefore  whilst  I have a great  deal of sympathy  for Mr N - I cant 
uphold his complaint because I havent  come to the conclusion Halifax did anything  wrong 
when it applied the ERC.
I appreciate it has added to Mr Ns frustration that the final response  letter  didnt refer to the 
ERC being discussed on the phone but instead  referred to the meetings he had. But - as the 
adjudicator pointed out  the crux of the complaint is whether he was given incorrect 
information regarding  the ERC and in that respect  the final response letter  was clear that it 
did not think he had been given that information.  . 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9039919