K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains about HSBC UK Bank  Plcs decision to review  and suspend his account  
without any notice. 
Background
Mr F held a current account and savings  account  with HSBC. He manages a property rental 
company in the UK but lives in Iran.
In October  2018, HSBC  carried out a review  on Mr Fs accounts. While they carried out this 
review, Mr Fs accounts were frozen and therefore he couldnt use them for debits or credits. 
HSBC didnt tell Mr F about  their review or that he wouldnt be able to use his accounts. Mr F 
found out when he received a letter from another bank letting him know  one of his Direct 
Debit payments didnt go through. Because of the restrictions, Mr F couldnt collect  a rental 
payment from one of his tenants in October 2018.  Mr F complained  to HSBC, but they said 
they were entitled  to conduct reviews. 
Mr F arranged to use one of his family members accounts to manage  his property rental 
company. But he says hes still at a loss of around  £1,800 because  of the October 2018 
rental payment. 
Mr F referred the complaint to our service. When our investigator started to investigate, he 
realised the account  was still blocked.  In December 2019, HSBC gave Mr F notice to close  
his account. They gave Mr F two months  notice; however, they didnt lift the restrictions  to 
his accounts so he couldnt use them.
The investigator who looked at the complaint  thought  HSBC  were entitled to block,  review  
and subsequently close Mr Fs accounts.  But he thought there had been significant delays 
with their decision to close the account.  So, he asked  them  to pay Mr F £150  compensation. 
The investigator didnt  ask HSBC to reimburse  Mr F for the rental payment he said hed lost 
out on, because HSBC  started their review  in the month the rental payment was due 
(October 2018). And he thought HSBC were entitled  to carry out that review.  
Mr F didnt  agree. He said he wanted at least £1,000 compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience. As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed  to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr F, 
so Ive explained my reasons further below.
I know Mr F is disappointed  HSBC didnt let him know they were  going to carry out a review  
on his account.  And because of that, it meant Mr F couldnt access his funds,  neither  could  
people pay money  into his account. I appreciate this put Mr F in a financially challenging 
situation  especially because he had rental payments to collect.  
Ive considered HSBCs  actions when reviewing and subsequently suspending Mr Fs 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
Ref: DRN92138342with their obligations. HSBC, like all UK banks,  are strictly regulated and must take certain  
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied HSBC were acting in line with these  obligations when reviewing Mr Fs account. 
Because of that, I cant say HSBC are to blame for Mr F not being able to collect  his tenants 
rental payment for October  2018. I recognise it would have caused some problems for Mr F 
because his bank  account couldnt accept these payments. However, Mr F has confirmed he 
was able to use one of his family members accounts instead. So, I consider it would have 
been possible for Mr F to get in touch with the tenant and ask them  to pay their monthly  rental 
for October  2018  to another account. I agree  this would  have  caused  some inconvenience but 
as Ive found HSBC were  entitled to carry out the review and suspend the accounts, I cant  
fairly ask them to reimburse Mr F for money  he lost out due to a result of this.
Im aware HSBC gave  Mr F around  two months  notice, in December 2019, when they 
decided to close his accounts. However,  I consider this to be an immediate closure of 
accounts. I say that because Mr Fs accounts  remained suspended  and therefore, he 
couldnt transfer funds or use his account for a further two months after receiving HSBCs 
notification to close. Ive considered whether HSBC  were entitled to close  Mr Fs account 
immediately. And based on the evidence Ive seen, they were. The investigator  helpfully 
pointed out that section  27 of HSBCs  terms and conditions allow them  to close  an account 
immediately. Ive considered this term alongside whats happened, and I agree HSBCs 
actions are in line with this term. 
However, like the investigator, I do think HSBC caused significant delays. HSBC started their 
review in October 2018. From the evidence Ive seen, I cant  see they actively reviewed 
anything on Mr Fs account from November 2018 to December 2019. Therefore, I consider 
there was a delay  period of over one year. So, Ive thought about how HSBC should  put 
things right for Mr F.
Not having access  to your bank  accounts for over a year would be extremely frustrating and 
worrying for most people   Mr F is no exception here. However,  Im pleased  to see Mr F was 
able to take control of his finances  and keep his business running by using his family 
members accounts. By doing this, he reduced the impact this situation caused. Ive then 
looked at the account  balances and can see that both his current  account  and savings  
account had a balance of less than £4. Because  of that, I dont consider not having access  
to this amount  of money  caused significant  distress. So, I consider  a compensation payment 
of £150 would be a reasonable amount. 
I appreciate Mr F wanted around £1,000 and thats mainly because  of the rental  money he 
lost out on in October 2018. But Ive explained  above why I dont think HSBC are at fault for 
that loss. I know Mr F will be left disappointed by my decision, but I think  £150 compensation 
is a fair amount  to put things right. So, I wont ask HSBC to pay any more  than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Fs complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 
Mr F £150 compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered due to the delays HSBC 
caused when  reviewing and subsequently closing his account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ref: DRN92138343Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9213834