K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that, although she asked Billing  Finance  Ltd to cancel her hire 
purchase agreement  within  the first few days, it wont allow her to do so.
background
On 22 August 2018, Mrs S acquired a used car with the benefit of a hire purchase 
agreement with Billing Finance. The car cost £14,150. On 27 and 28 August 2018, Mrs S 
contacted Billing  Finance to say her relationship with her partner had broken down and 
she was no longer able to afford  the payments. She asked for the agreement to be 
unwound.
Billing Finance  said although Mrs S had the right to cancel the finance within 14 days 
this wouldnt cancel the agreement unless the dealership agreed. But the dealership 
wasnt willing to do so as the car wasnt faulty. Instead it offered to buy back  the car for 
£10,900.
On 5 September Billing Finance spoke to Mrs S, who said the car was with her partner. 
As a result Billing Finance  said the terms and conditions of the agreement  had been 
breached. It sent her a default  notice  and then on 24 September  it brought  the 
agreement to an end. Billing Finance said it had tried to contact Mrs S several  times  to 
discuss the agreement  but hadnt  been able to get in touch so it had had to take steps to 
recover the car.
Mrs S refused as she said believed  she was entitled to cancel the agreement.  She said 
she hadnt signed the agreement so she didnt feel it was valid.  And she didnt  feel it was 
fair that she should  be required  to pay anything more. Mrs S said the car had now been 
taken back by Billing Finance and was due to be sold at auction  so she doubted  if the 
dealership had been willing to buy it back as Billing Finance had suggested.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said hed seen a copy of the hire 
purchase agreement  which  Mrs S had signed in 4 places so he felt it was valid.  He 
understood that Mrs S no longer wanted  the car because of her personal  circumstances 
but the terms of the agreement didnt allow Mrs S to change her mind  only to withdraw  
from the finance. If she did however, shed need to find another  way to repay the loan, 
including selling the car and if necessary, making up any shortfall. He could see Billing 
Finance had explained this in its email of 11 September. 
He said Billing  Finance  had offered her the option of returning  the car and allowing the 
dealership to buy it back but shed decided not to follow this up. He felt Billing  Finance 
had acted reasonably in the circumstances and dealt with the complaint fairly  so he 
wouldnt be asking it to cancel the agreement or to do anything more.
Ref: DRN98855122Mrs S disagreed and asked for her complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.  She said 
in summary:
when she signed the agreement at the garage shed been told she had a 14 day 
cooling off period. She felt shed been  misled. Shed also been told by the police  
that she had the right to withdraw  as the car wasnt hers.
shed told the dealership and Billing  Finance within a few days that she wanted  to 
cancel so she felt Billing Finance was wrong not to allow her to do so;

she hadnt signed that part of the agreement that required her to pay interest so 
she didnt agree she needed to pay this as well. She said she should  only owe 
any difference in the price of the car from 22 August, when she acquired it, to 
when it was sold plus any other costs for the time her partner had use of it. She 
didnt accept she owed Billing Finance anything more;
she wasnt able to afford the repayments now and she no longer  had the car so 
she felt Billing Finance  should cancel the agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking 
Billing Finance  to cancel the agreement  as Ill now explain.
I can see Mrs S has raised concerns about  both the dealership and Billing Finance. As 
the provider of the finance in this case  I am able to look at the complaints about  Billing  
Finance but Im not able to consider complaints  about the dealership  unless the issues  
relate directly to the finance agreement that was taken out for this car.
I understand that since acquiring this car Mrs Ss circumstances have changed.  I can 
understand why this means she no longer wants the car. But in making my decision I 
have to look at whats fair and reasonable and that means looking at the terms of the 
agreement Mrs S signed and asking whether Billing Finance had made a mistake in the 
way its dealt with this complaint. If it hasnt then I cant  reasonably direct it to cancel the 
agreement. 
Ive seen that before Mrs S signed the agreement she was given a number of 
documents covering the key points of the agreement, including the cancellation rights. 
These explained Mrs S had the right to change her mind and withdraw  from the financial 
agreement within 14 days subject to certain charges. However there  wasnt  any general  
right to cancel and if Mrs S did decide not to go ahead with the finance, then shed still 
be liable  to pay off the loan with Billing  Finance. And Ive seen  a copy  of the original 
signed by Mrs S so Im satisfied it was properly completed at the time.
Ref: DRN98855123Ive seen Mrs S says she was told by the dealership she could cancel within  14 days. 
Unfortunately theres no record  of what was said but Ive looked at the sales invoice Mrs 
S signed on the day and theres no mention of a general right to cancel within  fourteen  
days. And as set out above the other documents signed by Mrs S are clear as to what  
the cancellation rights are so overall  I think Mrs S would have been  aware  of what her 
rights were. For that reason I cant agree that Billing  Finance was unreasonable  in 
saying that t couldnt unwind the agreement unless the dealership  agreed. And the 
dealership didnt agree so that option wasnt available but I cant reasonably say Billing 
Finance was responsible for this.
Ive seen the dealership offered to buy it back but the price it offered was significantly 
below the price it had sold the car for a few days earlier. This would have left a shortfall 
that Mrs S would have  had to pay so she declined. I can understand why Mrs S wasnt  
happy with this but if she has any concerns about  the dealership then shed need to 
follow this up with the Motor Ombudsman as this is outside of the scope of this decision. 
But Im satisfied that Billing  Finance  did put this offer to Mrs S and I dont think there was 
much more it could do in the circumstances as Mrs S had made it clear she also didnt 
want to end the agreement early  because of the financial  penalty that would incur.
When Mrs S called Billing Finance on 5 September, she said she no longer had the car. 
This was a breach of the terms of the agreement so at that point I consider Billing 
Finance was entitled to take steps  to recover the car. Unless  Mrs S can discharge the 
agreement the car will now be sold and the proceeds used  to pay off the loan. If the 
price it achieves at auction is less than the amount  under  the agreement. Mrs S will have 
to pay the shortfall  but I would hope that Billing  Finance will take account  of the change 
in her circumstances  and work with Mrs S to find an acceptable repayment plan, if 
required.
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs S was hoping for but for the reason set out above I 
dont think Billing  Finance  has done anything wrong so I cant  reasonably ask it to 
unwind the agreement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885512