K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc wont  refund to him the amount that 
hes claimed for his purchase of a multi-media  car stereo unit. His complaint is made against 
NatWest under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.  
background
Mr W used his NatWest  credit card in April 2018  to pay £124.64 for a multi-media  car stereo 
unit that he bought using  an online marketplace. He says that the unit developed a serious 
fault after about five months  and the sat-nav function doesnt work  at all. He contacted  the 
supplier which said that he should  return the unit to it  and it credited him with £30 to cover 
the return costs. But Mr W says that he found  out that it would cost him £51 to return  the unit 
to the supplier because its overseas. So he claimed a refund of £94.64 (being the cost of 
the unit less the £30 that hes received from the supplier) from NatWest  under section 75. 
But he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Mr Ws payment  was made to the online marketplace  and not directly to the supplier  so 
there was no direct  relationship between NatWest and the supplier. And because of that she 
said that the contract wasnt formed in a way that creates the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. So she concluded  that it wouldnt be fair for her to say that NatWest 
should refund Mr W under  section 75.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that: 
he finds it incredulous  that the online marketplace can act as a retailer  but isnt 
subject to the same trading obligations as other  retailers;
the online marketplace has failed to make  sure that the supplier had complied with 
the requirement to either provide a local return address or pay the return  postage  
should the item be faulty; and
the online marketplace is at fault here and, as the money transaction was between  it 
and NatWest, NatWest is jointly responsible  for his loss under section 75.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those  circumstances is that there  must  be a 
relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier.
In this case Mr W is the debtor because  hes used credit provided  by NatWest to pay for the 
unit, NatWest is the creditor  because its provided credit to Mr W and the supplier  is the 
entity that supplied the unit to Mr W. But Mr W bought the unit using an online marketplace 
and his payment  was made to the online marketplace (and not to the supplier). Yet it was the 
supplier (and not the online marketplace) that supplied the unit to Mr W. That means  that 
theres no relevant  relationship between NatWest  and the supplier -so Mr Ws claim against 
NatWest under section  75 cant succeed.
Ref: DRN93228742I can understand Mr Ws frustration about this but the requirement for a debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship is set out in section 75. And the online marketplace does offer 
guarantee protection in some circumstances when a buyer can't reach an agreement  with 
the supplier. But in this case, the supplier has asked Mr W to return the unit to it  but he 
hasnt done so because of the cost of returning it. Mr W clearly  feels  that the online 
marketplace hasnt  acted properly. But his complaint is about NatWest  and not the online 
marketplace  and NatWest would only be liable  under section 75 if, amongst other things, 
there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that NatWest has acted incorrectly.  
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
NatWest to refund to Mr W the £94.64  that hes claimed  or to take any other action  in 
response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9322874