complaint
Mr M has complained about his let property insurer Ageas Insurance Limited. He thinks it 
should pay him more  for repairs costs and lost rent suffered after a water  leak.
background
Mr M had a leak at his let property. He thought the water company were  to blame. He called 
Ageas, contacted the water company and did the repair work. When the water company 
denied liability Mr M made  a claim to Ageas for repair costs and lost rent. Ageas accepted  
the claim but didnt  agree  to reimburse  all of Mr Ms costs and losses.
Mr M asked  Ageas to pay £8,031.80 for repairs. His list of invoices included  work done by a 
damp specialist to tank and damp  proof the basement flat. He asked for seven months lost 
rent. He noted  that once  repairs  had been  done  it took a little while for new tenants  to be 
found but he felt this was all related to the water leak, meaning it was covered by the policy.
Ageas said it would settle the repair cost claim based on what it would have cost it to do the 
work, but excluding costs  related to tanking  and damp proofing  £6,741.74. It said, 
particularly in regard  to the damp proofing, this was required by the flooring manufacturer to 
comply with its guarantee. Ageas felt the tanking and damp proofing work equated to 
betterment which wasnt covered by the policy. Regarding rent it said the property had been 
ready to live in after four months, but it would pay for five months on account  of the time of 
year. It considered  how it had handled  the claim and accepted there  had been delays. It 
said it would  pay Mr M £500 compensation.
Mr M complained to us. Our investigator felt that Ageas  response  regarding lost rent and 
compensation was fair and reasonable. But he felt Ageas should pay for the damp  proofing  
and tanking work Mr M had done (based on what it would have cost it to do the work).
Mr M didnt  respond to our investigators  findings.  Ageas said it didnt agree with them.  
Ageas maintained the work was betterment rather  than necessary to provide long-lasting 
repairs. The complaint was passed to me to consider and I issued a provisional decision 
because I didnt think it was fair to make Ageas pay for the damp  proofing work.  The parties 
have now responded. Ive set my provisional findings, the parties comments  and my replies 
out below.
I said provisionally:
Ref: DRN9440208lost rent
The policy does give cover for loss of rent the policyholder is unable to recover. But the 
policy goes on and links that loss (which is being  covered)  to a time when the building cant 
be lived in due to damage also covered by the policy. So, if following a water leak, the 
property is uninhabitable and rent is lost, that loss will be covered by Ageas.
Here some of the rent Mr M claimed  for as being  lost was related to the property not being 
able to be lived in following  the water leak and repairs, which  were  covered by the policy  
and for which  Ageas  accepted liability. But some  were related to the general market  forces  
which meant it just took a little while for a new tenant to be found. Essentially the property 
could be lived in, the only reason it wasnt was because there was no tenant. I think  the five 
months offered  by Ageas,  given what the policy offers  cover  for, is fair and reasonable. Im 
not going to require it pay anything more.
repair settlement
Mr Ms flat (which  is a basement flat), didnt have damp proofing or tanking before. Nor did 
it, seemingly, have any pre-existing damp issues. Had it done  so that might have confused  
the issue of Ageas liability for repair following the water leak. Because Mr M had the work 
done it would have been difficult for Ageas to know if the repairs  were  truly related to the 
water leak or if they were necessary because of damp. But as I say, there is no suggestion 
there was a previous problem, so Ageas was happy  to settle for all the repairs  excluding  the 
installation of damp proofing  and tanking. In the circumstances I think that is fair.
This service does sometimes require an insurer to install tanking even if such  wasnt  
present. But whether this is required or not is a decision taken on the merits of each case. 
And it isnt one driven by the policy  because no insurance policy  that I know of provides 
cover for preventative costs.
Here I think its clear  that Mr M had no need to protect his fixtures  and fittings from damp  
before the one-off water  leak occurred, so I dont think its fair to say any repairs would be 
unlikely to last if protective  measure werent  implemented after the leak was stopped. But it 
doesnt surprise me that any contractors working on the property would recommend such 
measures were undertaken. If they hadnt recommended  such  and their work had failed,  
then Mr M might  seek to make them re-do their work. Of course the decision as to whether 
to implement the recommendation or continue as before without them,  was always  one for 
Mr M to make. In the circumstances Im not persuaded its fair to make  Ageas pay for the 
damp proofing and tanking work  Mr M chose to undertake at his property.
Having set the damp proofing and tanking work  aside, Ive checked Ageas scope of work 
that it based its cash settlement on. It broadly correlates with the remaining work  Mr M said 
he had done.  The settlement is based  on what it would have cost Ageas to do the work,  not 
what Mr M paid for it. However,  it wasnt Ageas  fault that Mr M completed the work before 
notifying it of the loss and the policy does allow Ageas,  when settling in cash,  to pay only 
what it would  have  cost it to do the work.
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied  the settlement  Ageas  offered is fair and 
reasonable. Im not going to require it pay anything more.
Ref: DRN9440208K820x#14claim handling
Ageas has accepted that it caused delays. That is far from ideal. Ageas has offered £500  
compensation to make  up for that. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im not going  to require it to pay anything more.
Ageas said it accepted  my findings.
Mr M was still concerned that not all the damage had been covered. He provided 
evidence of some previous damp  proofing. Ageass unpriced schedule, which did include 
some allowance for damp proofing, was sent to Mr M and he noted  it didnt include any 
repairs in the kitchen area of the basement. On review I noted  the letting agent  did say 
plaster to the right of the radiator in the kitchen needed repairing. I told Ageas  that, 
unless it could give me a good reason not to, Id likely issue  a final decision requiring it to 
review its settlement to include the cost of repairing damage in the kitchen.
Ageas said it wasnt aware that Mr M had any costs  for repairing the kitchen. Its adjuster 
had noted the basement  area included the kitchen but hadnt specified there was any 
damage in that area. It said the costs  had been reviewed many times and it was 
confident all areas of damage had been considered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do think Ageas needs to review its settlement but Mr M should  be aware that there will 
likely still be a short-fall between his costs  and Ageas settlement. Ill explain.
I appreciate my decision is disappointing for Mr M. Whilst I accept Mr M had contacted  
Ageas initially, he didnt go back to it to progress  the claim until after work  had been  
done. I appreciate  Mr M wanted to get on with things and that he was seeking to mitigate  
his losses as best he could  but that has presented at least one difficulty  for him. 
It meant there  was always a risk (which has been  realised) that he would never  re-coup 
all of his outlay as most  insurers, when  not given an opportunity  to carry out repairs, will 
only pay out what it would have cost it to do the work. And that is very often less than the 
policyholder has paid. 
I know Mr M would like to verify the figures Ageas based its settlement on. But costs like 
this are commercially sensitive, meaning theyre considered  to be confidential, and it isnt 
unusual for insurers  to refuse to share them  with policyholders. Ageas has shared the 
data with us though and Mr M has been  sent a redacted version of the schedule so he 
can see what work Ageas accepted was necessary (although  not what Ageas would 
have been charged for it). It does  include  some  damp proofing  work.
However, the schedule  that Ageas based its costs on doesnt include any repair  to the 
kitchen area (part of the basement).  Ageas says its confident  its schedule  includes all 
repair costs  but it hasnt shown me there was no damage in the area of the kitchen. Its 
adjuster noted  the basement included the kitchen. He then described damaged plaster  in 
the basement  and didnt  specify there was no damage in the kitchen area.  The letting 
Ref: DRN94402084agents report on damage does state that plaster  to the right of the radiator in the kitchen 
was damaged. So whilst I understand  that Ageas is confident in the settlement it has 
made, Im not persuaded that includes payment for all the repairs necessary as a result  
of the water  damage. It will need to make  a further  payment to Mr M to reflect  the cost of 
reinstating the kitchen,  given the damage  specified by the letting agent, and which takes  
into account any previous damp proofing  in that area.  
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied by what Ive seen that, with the exception of 
any repair needed in the kitchen, fair settlement, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy, for the parts of the work Ageas is liable for, has been paid by it. With regret for 
any disappointment this causes Mr M, Im not minded to make  Ageas pay more  in 
respect of the necessary repairs  as set out in its schedule,  even though  those repairs  
may have  cost Mr M more  to complete than the settlement  amount he was paid. But I am 
going to require Ageas to make a further  settlement to Mr M for repairs necessary in the 
kitchen. This will need  to be made in line with my comments above  and the policy terms 
and conditions. 
My provisional findings regarding  Ageas claim handling havent been challenged by 
either party. My provisional  findings  in this respect therefore havent  changed.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to make  a further 
settlement to Mr M in respect of reinstating  his kitchen in line with my comments above  
and the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9440208