K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on this complaint  on 18 December 2018.  A copy 
of it is attached and it forms part of this final decision. 
I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold  this complaint and asked  both parties to let me 
know if they had anything to add.
Cashfloat responded saying it had nothing else to add. Mr T also responded, saying he 
didnt think the provisional decision was correct.  He said Cashfloat never made any checks 
into his work  situation or salary and continually  lent him money without  any basic  checks  of 
affordability. He said he was struggling  to pay Cashfloat back  and it took full advantage of 
his situation.
Ive considered Mr Ts response  and have set out my findings  below.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  findings  as I did in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T. Ill explain why what  Mr T has said hasnt  
changed my mind.
I dont agree that Cashfloat didnt make  any checks into Mr Ts work situation  or salary. From 
what Ive seen, Mr T was asked about  his salary and his employment status each time he 
made an application for credit. It also asked some questions about his outgoings. 
Information about Mr Ts employment, such as salary and employer name, was changed 
from time-to-time,  so it seems Mr T was giving sufficient attention  to this part of the 
application form. 
For the most  part, I still think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to rely on what  Mr T was telling 
it about his income  and employment status. The credit checks it carried  out didnt raise any 
concerns about  this information. It may also help if I explain  that the industry regulator 
doesnt set out any prescriptive  checks a business must undertake before lending. Theres 
no rule which required Cashfloat  to ask Mr T to provide it with proof  of his income and 
outgoings.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, what Cashfloat was required to do was to carry out 
affordability checks which were proportionate in the circumstances of each loan. But it has 
discretion as to what those checks should be.
In some circumstances  I consider it might be proportionate for a lender to ask an applicant 
for further  information  to support what theyve said about their income or expenditure. This 
could include where a lender has reason to believe the applicant hasnt provided full or 
correct information.  But for loans 1-6, I didnt  think this applied in Mr Ts circumstances. 
Ref: DRN96921822I thought it was reasonable for Cashfloat  to rely on what Mr T told it without carrying  out 
further checks (beyond the credit checks it actually carried  out). And I still think  this is the 
case, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
I did find however that Cashfloat ought  to have done more to check  whether loans 7 and 8 
were affordable. I went on to say that such proportionate checks  would  most  likely have 
suggested the loans were  still affordable. I havent  seen any new information to change  my 
mind on that point and it isnt something Mr T has specifically challenged. I have however 
reviewed the information  in my provisional  decision again and think this is still a fair 
outcome.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Western Circle Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96921823COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T says Western  Circle  Limited,  trading as Cashfloat, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Cashfloat approved eight loans for Mr T. Ive set out some of the details  Cashfloat provided about the 
loans in the table below.
Loan  
no.Amount  
(£)Instalments 
(£)Approved 
onScheduled  
endActual 
end
1 500 2 x 329 26/07/2016 19/09/2016 07/10/2016
2 250 1 x 324 08/10/2016 14/11/2016 14/11/2016
3 250 1 x 280 24/11/2016 09/12/2016 09/12/2016
4 400 2 x 278 30/03/2017 30/05/2017 05/05/2017
5 400 2 x 257 14/05/2017 03/07/2017 26/05/2017
6 600 2 x 396 12/07/2017 04/09/2017 11/08/2017
7 600 2 x 386 14/08/2017 02/10/2017 18/08/2017
8 400 3 x 188 19/08/2017 06/11/2017 23/10/2017
An adjudicator considered this complaint and recommended it be upheld in respect of loans 5-8. 
Cashfloat didnt agree with this, saying (in summary):
The loan repayments  were small in relation to Mr Ts income and so the amount of checking  
(i.e. proportionate checks) was correspondingly  lower. Expecting  a 
full-scale audit  of Mr Ts financial records isnt reasonable
Cashfloat did, as the adjudicator suggested, verify Mr Ts income, using credit tools
It doesnt  have to take into account discretionary spending
Customers with outstanding short-term debt will often choose to make higher payments than 
necessary in order to reduce their debt and save  on interest. If they then have an unexpected 
expense, they will borrow again, and reduce the payments to previous lenders to the 
minimum level to leave  sufficient disposable income to make the repayments on their new 
loan. This is perfectly  rational and unobjectionable behaviour
Some of the figures the adjudicator used seem highly  unlikely or didnt make sense
The adjudicator didnt distinguish between the balance of outstanding loans and the 
repayment required when looking at Mr Ts outgoings
The number  of loans  Mr T took out had no bearing on credit risk or affordability.
Mr Ts indebtedness (from his credit report) reduced by a third over the period of lending
Cashfloat doesnt have  to take gambling expenditure  into account
As there  was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance include  the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). CONC contains rules and guidance for lenders about responsible  lending. 
Among other things, CONC says lenders should carry out affordability checks  which are proportionate 
in the circumstances  of the loan. The regulations also say repayments should be sustainable (i.e. 
repayable from the borrowers income or savings) and that lenders shouldnt  allow a borrower to enter 
into consecutive credit agreements where  it would be unsustainable to do so. CONC was amended in 
Ref: DRN96921824November 2018, so any reference  to it in this decision should be read to mean CONC as it stood at 
the time the loans were  approved.
With this in mind, Ive considered whether  Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks  before lending   
and if I find it didnt  Ive gone on to consider what proportionate  checks would likely have shown.
Cashfloat has shown us that it took into account information provided by Mr T in his application. This 
included information  about his income, expenditure and employment status. The monthly  outgoings 
Cashfloat recorded included  figures for food/groceries, utility bills, rent/mortgage, other credit 
commitments and travelling  expenses. Ive set out below the figures  Mr T provided  to Cashfloat.
For each  loan,  Mr T declared a net monthly income  of £4,000-£4,500 and also included partners 
income of £1,500. Mr Ts total declared monthly expenditure was £2,400-£2,900 and Cashfloat seems 
to have used a figure of just under £2,500 when calculating Mr Ts total expenditure for each loan. It 
worked out Mr Ts household  disposable income was about £3,000  so Mr Ts personal  disposable  
income would be about £1,500 (if his partners  income  was disregarded). Cashfloat  also carried out 
credit checks,  but I havent  seen the detailed results of these for all of Mr Ts loans.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think the checks Cashfloat carried  out on loans 1-3 were 
proportionate, bearing in mind the size of the loans  and the information provided  by Mr T on his 
applications. The repayments on each  of these loans were small in relation to Mr Ts declared income  
(and declared disposable  income) and the amounts Mr T was borrowing  were not increasing. Ive 
taken into account that loan 1 was repaid 18 days late, but I dont think one instance of a late 
repayment is enough to suggest Cashfloat shouldve carried out more  detailed checks for loan 2 or 3, 
particularly given that they were half the size of loan 1.
One element of possible concern is that Cashfloat did see, from its credit check in October 2016, that 
Mr T had £20,875 of consumer credit  debt  this included  £12,385 on credit cards  and £8,422 of loans 
and instalment credit.  But Mr T included £400 for loan repayments and £500 for other credit 
commitments on his loan application. From the credit  check information Ive seen,  
I dont think these  outgoings would have appeared to be obviously wrong to Cashfloat. And the loans 
appear to be affordable when taking those figures into account.
Overall, I think  Cashfloat  carried out proportionate checks and reasonably decided  loans 1-3 were 
affordable. So Im not planning to uphold  the complaint about loans 1-3.
There was then a three month gap between Mr T repaying loan 3 and applying for loan 4. On the one 
hand, this isnt a particularly long gap bearing in mind  the short-term nature of the type of credit Mr T 
was applying for. This was Mr Ts fourth application for short-term credit in eight months, which  I 
consider to be relatively frequent to the point where  it might  indicate a dependency on this type of 
credit. But on the other hand, Mr Ts declared income was quite high, he appeared to have a 
reasonable amount of disposable income and Ive not seen that Cashfloat was actually aware that 
Mr T was in financial  difficulty. Based on his declared  net monthly salary of £4,000 and total declared  
expenditure of £2,900 (which included  £1,000 towards other loans),  Mr T had £1,100 of disposable  
income from which he had to make two repayments of £278.  
I also bear in mind he included his partners £1,500 income on the application  which  would suggest 
he shared at least some  of his living costs.
On balance, I think  Cashfloats checks were proportionate for loan 4 too. Although I havent seen the 
credit checks for loan 4, Ive seen a credit check either side of this loan and I dont think  its likely  a 
more up-to-date credit  check wouldve significantly undermined what Mr T told Cashfloat about his 
credit commitments. As it stands, Im not planning to uphold the complaint about  loan 4.
For loans 5 and 6 Mr T declared a monthly income of £4,000 and £4,500 respectively. His declared 
outgoings again totalled  £2,900 for loan 5 and totalled £3,050  for loan 6. This left Mr T with disposable  
income of £1,100-£1,450. Ive thought carefully  about whether it was still reasonable for Cashfloat to 
rely on the information  Mr T provided. It says it verified his income  with credit reference agencies and 
Ref: DRN96921825although I havent seen  much detail  of this I have seen Mr Ts bank statements and I dont think more 
detailed checks wouldve suggested Mr T earned less than he declared. Cashfloat has also 
suggested Mr Ts indebtedness was reducing  over time. And his credit report  does show a small 
reduction in his overall indebtedness, from around £21,000 total debt in October  2016 down to around 
£19,000 in August 2017.  Theres also a reduction in the value of cash advances  Mr T received over 
the same period and the balance of debt classified as loan/instalment credit decreases from £8,400 
to £5,800.
I think  there are also negative factors to take into account. The August 2017 credit check  shows a 
total of 23 accounts were opened within 12 months. I think this suggests  Mr T was relying  heavily on 
short-term credit. The credit  checks  also shows  Mr T had 12 active accounts and it seems that there 
was a recent default on at least one account.
In addition to this negative information, its also arguably unusual that Mr T  who had reported 
significant disposable income  of £1,100-£1,450, was regularly returning  to borrow  relatively small 
sums. I consider this to be a factor which it could be said should have caused Cashfloat to question  
whether it was still proportionate or reasonable to accept what Mr T was saying about  his outgoings. 
Given the above,  Ive thought carefully about  whether Cashfloats  checks  were proportionate for loans 
5 and 6, bearing in mind  the negative  and positive factors  Ive summarised. And on balance, I think  it 
was still reasonable for Cashfloat to rely on the information  provided by Mr T. And so I think  the sort of 
income and expenditure  information Cashfloat gathered  was still proportionate at this stage in the 
lending relationship. In saying this, Ive taken into account that the total amount Cashfloat had 
advanced to Mr T at this stage (loans  1-6) was £2,400  and this was across a period of almost a 
year. Mr T had reported  monthly  income of at least  £4,000. So the total amount Cashfloat had 
advanced was around 5% of Mr Ts declared  net yearly  income.  On balance,  I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to say Cashfloat  shouldve considered Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing  or wasnt 
sustainable. Im not therefore planning  to uphold  the complaint about loans  5 and 6.
For loans 7 and 8, I do not consider Cashfloat carried out proportionate affordability checks. Ive again 
taken into account the positive  and negative factors Ive mentioned  above. But I also bear in mind that 
short-term loans are not generally considered to be suitable for long term use (CONC 6.7.22G).  And 
Cashfloat had been advancing credit  to Mr T for about  a year by this point   a total of eight loans in 12 
months. There were only very short gaps between Mr T closing his previous loans and opening loans  
7 and 8. I also think its reasonable to say the amounts Mr T was borrowing  were, by this time,  
increasing. Loan 6 was for £600. Then loans 7 and 8 were both taken in the same month, meaning 
Cashfloat leant Mr T £1,000  in total in August 2017.
I dont agree (as Cashfloat said in response to the adjudicator) that the number of loans isnt an 
important factor. I consider  that providing  a large  number of loans could have the effect  of unfairly  
prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit over an extended  period of 
time. Additionally, the sheer  number of loans  was likely to have negative implications on Mr Ts ability 
to access  mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost loans. So I think  the 
number of loans is a relevant factor  when  considering whether Cashfloat treated  Mr T fairly.
Finally, I think  by the time of loans 7 and 8 Cashfloat  should  have been sceptical about  whether  it 
knew enough  about Mr Ts income and outgoings to determine if the loans were sustainably 
affordable. From the dashboard calculation  it has provided, it seems it relied heavily on Mr Ts 
declared income and expenditure to work out his disposable income.  But I think  the number  and size 
of the loans  Mr T was requesting was enough,  by the time of loan 7, for Cashfloat to question whether 
Mr T really had as much disposable income as he declared.
Before approving loans 7 and 8, I think it would have been proportionate for Cashfloat to ask 
Mr T further questions about his credit commitments, setting out separately how much he paid for 
short-term and regular commitments. I also think it shouldve asked him to provide it with some 
evidence, such as bank statements, of his income and outgoings. It didnt do this, so Ive considered 
Ref: DRN96921826what I think Cashfloat  wouldve seen, taking into account information  from the bank statements  Mr T 
has provided.
Ive seen that in July 2017  about £9,075 was deposited into Mr Ts bank account,  from a limited 
company it seems was controlled by him. I think Cashfloat could reasonably  have treated this as 
income.
Its difficult to say exactly what Cashfloat wouldve decided  Mr Ts regular  credit commitments  were. 
Ive seen, from a credit  report he provided, that he had five credit cards with balances totalling about  
£13,000. This aligns with Cashfloats own credit  check. From  his bank statements, it seems likely Mr T 
was paying more than the minimum payment on his cards. But I think Cashfloat could reasonably  
have used the minimum payment when  deciding  whether  the loan was affordable. Mr T declared £500  
of credit commitments and this seems like enough to cover the minimum payment  on this much credit 
card debt. So I think Cashfloat couldve accepted £500 as being  a reasonably accurate figure for 
regular credit  commitments payments.
But Mr T said his loan repayments were £0. This couldnt be right. Cashfloats credit report  suggests  
Mr T had almost £6,000 in outstanding  loans/instalment credit.  The credit report  doesnt provide any 
information about the terms of the repayment for this debt. From  what  Ive seen from Mr Ts bank 
statements, it was likely to be a mixture of payday and instalment credit. 
Again, this makes it difficult  to say what proportionate checks wouldve  revealed  about Mr Ts short-
term credit commitments. Ive seen that he paid one short-term creditor £570 and another £480 
shortly after these loans were approved. I think its likely these were  both ordinary  contractual 
payments, which were  outstanding  at the time he applied for loans 7 and 8. I havent seen enough  to 
make me think Mr T had other  contractual short-term loan payments in addition to these. As a result, I 
think its likely proportionate checks  wouldve suggested Mr T had around £1,050 of short-term credit 
commitments Cashfloat wouldve taken into account as part of an affordability assessment.
This leaves Mr Ts general living costs. From what Ive seen, he paid rent of £1,825 a month, rather 
than the £1,250 declared. I think it would have been reasonable for Cashfloat to accept  the other 
figures Mr T provided for things  like travel and food and bills  a total of £650 a month. Overall, this 
leads to a total for general living expenses of about £2,500.
So to summarise, I think proportionate checks wouldve suggested to Cashfloat that Mr Ts income 
was about £9,000 a month and his expenditure included £500  for regular credit commitments,  £1,050 
for short-term  commitments and £2,500 for regular  living  costs  at the time he applied  for loans 7 and 
8. Even allowing for a significant margin for error, this would appear to leave quite a lot of disposable  
income from which Mr T could repay the loans. On balance, I dont think proportionate checks  
wouldve suggested these  loans were unaffordable.
Finally, I have noted there is at least one month in which there is a fair amount of gambling 
expenditure on Mr Ts bank statements. But it isnt persistent and there are many months with very 
little gambling  expenditure. I dont think that gambling  expenditure is a significant  consideration in 
Mr Ts case. I dont  agree  with Cashfloat that it should  never take it into account,  but in this case, 
I think  it isnt a particularly important factor and I dont plan to say more about it.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr T. But I dont think  its likely proportionate 
affordability checks wouldve lead Cashfloat to think loans 7 and 8 were not affordable. And I think  
Cashfloats checks  were  proportionate for loans  1-6. As a result, Im not currently planning  on 
upholding his complaint.
my provisional  decision
I am not currently planning to uphold  this complaint against Western Circle Ltd.
Ref: DRN9692182