K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) have refused to 
allow him to reject a washing machine that was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Shop Direct so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the goods  should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent  then Shop Direct are responsible.  The 
relevant law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
I dont think theres any dispute that the washing machine  wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
because I can see that the engineer who attended Mr Ms house confirmed it was faulty  and 
said it would  need  new parts.
In those circumstances the business are allowed an opportunity to repair the goods,  but the 
relevant legislation says that the repair must be completed in a reasonable time and without  
significant inconvenience to the consumer.
Here, I dont  think the repair has been completed in a reasonable time as Mr M was still 
waiting for a repair over a year after he took receipt  of the faulty  goods.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr M had with the supplier  and I dont agree with Shop Direct 
that a timeframe was given for the supply of the spare parts. In those circumstances I can 
understand Mr M not being prepared to agree  to the business offer as hed not been 
presented with a reasonable  timeframe.
And as Mr M wasnt able to resolve the issue in a reasonable time I dont think  it would  be 
fair to criticise him for organising his own replacement.
Ref: DRN93068052I think the fairest resolution would be for Shop Direct  to now allow  him to reject the washing 
machine; collect it and refund any payments Mr M has made towards  its cost.  They  should  
add interest to this refund  as Mr M has been deprived of that money. Im not suggesting  that 
Shop Direct retain any of the funds Mr M may have paid them  as I think  its clear  hes had no 
use from the goods they provided.
Its clear that Mr M has been  inconvenienced by these matters  and, in the circumstances,  I 
think it would  be fair for Shop Direct to compensate him for that inconvenience. I can see 
that they have  already offered £100 and I think thats sufficient.
I understand that Mr M complains the issue has impacted his credit  file and placed him in 
some financial  difficulty.  But Ive not seen  sufficient evidence of that and Im not therefore  
asking Shop Direct to provide any further compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Shop  Direct Finance 
Company Limited  to:
collect the washing machine,
refund  any payments  Mr M has made  towards it and add 8% simple interest per year 
to these refunds  from the date of payment to the date of settlement,
refund  any interest or charges that have  accrued as a result of this purchase and add 
8% simple interest  per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement,
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced,
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this item.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306805