K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Ms S. FICL didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store credit account.  The credit 
account started in November 1995.  Ms S was sold the PPI policy several months  after 
she applied  for the credit  account, in April 1996. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was  passed to me. I reached  a different view of 
the case, and so sent out a provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
When the adjudicator  recommended  that this complaint be upheld,  she did this 
mainly because she understood the credit account  to be a budget account and 
not the alternative option account. If you made a claim  on the PPI that came 
with a budget account, you would  generally find that it paid only 4% of the 
outstanding credit balance each month,  despite  costing  up to £1 for every  £100 
owed. I agree with the adjudicator that its unlikely Ms S would have thought the 
policy was good  value at that price, compared to the benefits. This was why the 
adjudicator said Ms Ss complaint should  be upheld. 
But FICL says Ms S actually always had an option account, even though the 
application form had a tick against  the budget  account. Amongst  other things, it 
has pointed to the account  number,  which only applied  to option accounts.
So I think it most likely that Ms S had an option account when she was sold 
PPI. This PPI paid 15% of the outstanding balance each month, if you made a 
successful claim. And I think  she would  have felt this was much better value for 
her.
Ms S thinks she must have taken out the PPI whilst in the store, although  she 
doesnt recall it being  mentioned. But Ive seen her store card application form 
and she didnt ask for PPI at that stage.  Given that FICLs records  say it was sold 
several months after the initial  opening of the credit account in the shop, I think 
the PPI was probably sold separately  by phone. FICLs records  suggest Ms S 
agreed to have it during a marketing call made to her. As her account was 
already open,  she would have known she didnt have to have the PPI to get the 
credit. And, as this happened  so long ago, there isnt evidence  to show  that Ms S 
didnt consent  to taking PPI. I think she probably did.
Ref: DRN98749462I have seen nothing  to suggest that FICL recommended the PPI as being 
particularly suitable  for Ms Ss individual needs. This means it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted her circumstances.  It would have been  for Ms S to decide 
whether it was suitable.
But I also cant be sure FICL properly set out the costs, and the limits on benefits. 
The benefits, however, were  fairly  generous compared to other  PPI policies 
available at the time. So, in Ms Ss circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information would have made  a difference to whether she took the PPI. I say this 
because its likely that the PPI could have  paid out for longer than her full 
employer sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition to any employer 
sick pay or redundancy pay. Also from what shes  told us I dont think Ms S had 
any alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit  account for long, if 
she lost her income. 
Also it doesnt look like shed have been  affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. So on balance I think shed probably have taken the 
policy out even  if shed been  given  all the right information during the phone call.
I invited everyone to send  in further  comments and evidence. I didnt receive any 
responses by the deadline set. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 my final decision
Ive not upheld this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9874946