K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about short-term  loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender). Mr M says that Quick Quid mis-handled 
a loan payment,  which resulted in him being given  further credit  which  he couldnt afford. He 
also says that the lender didnt treat him seriously when he complained about unaffordable 
lending. And that its error and his pursuit of a resolution to his complaint about it came at an 
extremely upsetting  time for him.
background
Quick Quid agreed four loans for Mr M in the period September 2016 to July 2017. The 
amounts ranged  from £100 to £600 and the loan terms varied.  Mr M took out additional 
capital on two of his loans, which Quick Quid says was refinanced  into new loans with longer  
repayment terms. The table below sets out some of the information Quick  Quid provided. 
Ive called the additional advances on loans 2 and 3 loans 2a and 3a respectively.
The lender  provided a monthly estimated disposable income or EDI for Mr Ms loans.  I dont 
know exactly how this was calculated,  but I have included it in the table below. 
No. Start RepaidPrincipal 
(£)Payment 
1 (£)Payment 
2 (£)Payment  
3 (£)Term 
(days)Monthly  
EDI (£)
1 15/09/2016 01/11/2016 200 24 251 - 47 623
2 15/12/2016 350 42 442 - 48 623
2a 10/01/2017 01/03/2017 250 136 734 - 50 -
3 27/03/2017 100 126 - - 32 712
3a 13/04/2017 350 68 122 554 78 -
4 17/07/2017 01/09/2017 450 49 562 - 46 950
An issue  arose with Mr Ms advance on his third loan. It seems Quick  Quid  didnt take the 
final payment when it was due but at a later date. Mr M says he couldnt afford to pay it then.  
It seems  Quick  Quid refunded this payment, but then agreed a fourth loan for Mr M while  the 
third was still outstanding.  
I understand that Quick Quid took the final payment for Mr Ms fourth loan when it fell due, 
though Mr M had asked  it not to do this. Mr M recovered  this payment via a charge-back 
through his bank, though  Quick Quid later took the payment again. I understand the parties 
were then unable  to reach agreement on a suitable  repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ms third loan, which has now been  repaid.
Quick Quid sent its final response to Mr M on 6 September 2017. It apologised for taking 
payment for his fourth loan saying it was too late to stop the payment by the time hed asked 
them to. And it offered  a repayment  plan for the outstanding balance  on his third loan. The 
final response didnt  address  what Mr M had said about his fourth  loan being  unaffordable. 
Nor did it acknowledge the recent passing  of Mr Ms father, which hed told Quick Quid about 
a number of times. 
When this Service let Quick Quid know that Mr M had brought  his complaint to us, 
Quick Quid investigated  all of Mr Ms loans to check whether  or not it was responsible  to 
have agreed to them. This Service then investigated  the matter and sent a view to both 
Ref: DRN97998342parties recommending that the lender refund the interest and charges that Mr M paid on his 
third and fourth loans,  and on the additional  capital granted on his second loan (loan 2a in 
the above table). Furthermore our adjudicator  recommended Quick Quid  pay Mr M £150 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset caused to him by its errors during a time when  he had 
suffered a bereavement.  
Mr M agreed  with our adjudication  but Quick Quid didnt. Quick Quid didnt comment  on our 
adjudicators findings  about the proportionality  of its checks or the affordability  of the loans, 
nor did it provide any new information for me to consider. It responded to our adjudication 
saying:
In response  to FOS assessment which recommends  CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which 
were funded after March 2015, we regret to inform you that cannot agree to FOS 
recommendations. Please note that in CashEuroNet UKs  initial  response to FOS we 
provided detailed  information indicating why the loan(s) were responsibly  lent Mr [M]. 
Furthermore, we would like to advise that we are currently  in talks with senior management 
at FOS to amicably resolve this outstanding issue, therefore we kindly  ask that you move 
this case for ombudsman queue for a final decision.
Beyond this, Quick  Quid confirmed that it consented to my considering all of the loans it 
agreed for Mr M in my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Firstly, let me say that Im very sorry to hear about  Mr Ms loss. I understand it takes time 
and effort  to bring a complaint to us, and more so when dealing  with such personal 
difficulties.
Turning to what Quick  Quid  says about  the loans it agreed for Mr M being later than the 
1st of March  2015 - this Service  has responded to Quick  Quid  on this generic argument 
directly and through earlier  final decisions. So I am not going  to address this point  here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  at this point of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance  in 
how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In 
particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for complaint handling 
should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
Ref: DRN97998343(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
My decision  will focus on the specifics of Mr Ms complaint and what both parties have said 
about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr M borrowed the loans in question.  Bearing  in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect Quick Quid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
Turning to the specifics of Mr Ms complaint, our adjudicator didnt uphold  his complaint 
about his first two loans,  saying that, based  on the information the lender had, the checks 
went far enough. I agree with this conclusion  for the first two loans. 
I also agree  that when  Mr M asked for additional  capital on 10 January  2017 Quick Quid  
ought to have gathered more information than it did for Mr Ms earlier  loans, given that the 
circumstances were  different. This was the third time Mr M asked  for credit in the space of 
about four months. And the fact that Mr M needed additional capital before hed repaid his 
original loan doesnt suggest  to me that he had any money saved or had surplus monies with 
which to meet this new shortfall. 
Our adjudicator felt that, had Quick  Quid done more here, it would have learnt  that Mr M 
would not be able to meet these repayments in a sustainable way given his actual income 
and expenditure.  I agree  with these  findings,  but even before looking into this, I think  it was 
foreseeable that these increased repayments werent sustainable for Mr M based on the 
information Quick  Quid had calculated. 
When Mr M applied for a second loan, the lender asked him for his income  and expenses  
and ran a credit check. With this information  it calculated an EDI of £623, which seems to 
suggest that Mr M wouldnt be able to meet  the repayments on this new capital balance  in a 
sustainable way because the second  payment came to more  than Quick Quid thought he 
had available. And, bearing in mind what I said above about the circumstances of this 
advance, I dont think it was responsible of Quick  Quid to have  agreed  further  credit  on this 
basis without looking further into Mr Ms circumstances. 
It is debateable for me whether  or not Quick Quid ought to have done more  when Mr M 
asked for his third loan  it was for a lower amount of £100 and seemed to be well within 
what it calculated to be his monthly EDI. However, when Mr M again asked for additional 
capital within  about two weeks and before making any repayment on this loan, I agree with 
our adjudicator in that Quick Quid ought to have sought a more comprehensive view of his 
Ref: DRN97998344finances. This was now the fifth time in about seven months Mr M had asked for credit  and 
the lender ought to have  been concerned that he wasnt using its loans to meet one-off 
shortfalls in income  but to meet an ongoing need. 
Similarly Quick  Quid ought to have looked  into Mr Ms finances further before granting 
loan 4, even without considering that his previous loan hadnt been settled. 
Our adjudicator explained that, had Quick Quid carried  our proportionate checks  its likely it 
would have found out that Mr M couldnt afford  to sustainably meet  his repayments on the 
refinanced amount of his second  loan or on his third or fourth loans. I generally agree with 
this outcome. Mr Ms living costs and existing credit commitments,  including other short-term 
loans, meant  he wasnt able to meet further loan repayments without difficulty. I have borne 
in mind that loans  2a, 3a and 4 were  all deferred  repayment loans but as I explained above, I 
dont think Quick Quid could reasonably  think that Mr M had surplus income which  he could 
put aside to meet later repayments because of the ongoing nature  of their lending  
relationship. 
Given that the initial capital on loan 3 was for a relatively low amount of £100  due to be 
repaid by one payment of £126, I think had Quick Quid gathered more information  about 
Mr Ms circumstances  it would still have agreed  this loan as this amount would have seemed 
affordable for him. And so I dont find it lent irresponsibly in this particular instance. 
Finally, our adjudicator recommended that Quick Quid pay Mr M £150  for the trouble and 
upset caused  to him by its error  in granting a new loan when the previous was outstanding 
and in recognition of its insensitive  handling of his subsequent complaint. I think  this is a 
reasonable recommendation given what has happened and Mr M has accepted our 
adjudication on this point.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Quick Quid was irresponsible  to lend to Mr M from the point when he asked for further credit 
in January 2017, apart from the initial capital amount of loan 3. In order to put him back  in 
the position he would have been  in, had it not irresponsibly agreed further credit,  Quick  Quid  
should: 
-refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid after this point  (apart from any incurred on the 
original capital  amount  for loan 3);
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about loans 2a, 3a, and 4 from Mr Ms credit file; 
-pay Mr M an amount of £150  to reflect the trouble  and upset this matter  has caused  him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN97998345my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid to put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9799834