K822xComplaint
Mr W has complained about Bank  of Scotland plcs (trading as Halifax) decision to change 
its overdraft pricing structure,  which made his overdraft more expensive . Mr W is also 
unhappy at the errors  Halifax made  when  trying to set up a repayment plan with him.
Background 
Mr W initially complained about  Halifaxs changes to its pricing overdraft pricing  structure 
and said this would lead to him experiencing financial difficulty. He subsequently complained 
about the service  Halifax provided when he told it about the difficulty  he was having  paying 
the increased charges.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought Halifax  should rework  Mr Ws 
account to remove  the effect of all the interest  fees and charges added  to his overdraft from 
August 2017 onwards. She also thought  Halifax  should pay Mr W a further £500 to reflect  
the distress and inconvenience  its error in calculating Mr Ws disposable  income in 
November 2017  caused. 
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators view. But Mr W disagreed. He thought that the £500  in 
compensation Halifax had agreed  to repay (in addition to the refund of the interest,  fees and 
charges) wasnt enough. And he asked for an ombudsmans  decision.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax  has already  agreed to
do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of his
complaint. Ill explain  why I think this is the case. 
All parties  agree that Halifax shouldnt have continued offering Mr W his overdraft on the 
same terms  from August 2017.  And he should be refunded the interest, fees and charges he 
paid from August 2017 onwards as a result. So I dont need to look into this part of the 
complaint.
However, as well as unwinding any wrongdoing caused by Halifax  allowing to continue using 
his overdraft after it became unsustainable, I also have  the power to make  an award to 
reflect the emotional and practical impact Halifaxs actions  particularly in relation to the 
errors that took place when the income and expenditure assessment carried out in 
November 2017  - have  had. Our website contains detailed  examples  of distress and 
inconvenience awards we might  make and the reasons why might make  them.  These are set 
out in different categories and levels  to show the range of awards we make. 
Ive carefully considered  the additional payment  Halifax has already agreed  to make to Mr W 
with reference  to these distress  and inconvenience  awards and categories.  All parties  agree 
that Mr Ws expenditure was incorrectly recorded as being  £800 more than it was and this is 
the reason why Halifax concluded Mr W didnt  have any disposable income at all and 
suggested that the account may need to close and an arrangement reached to repay the 
outstanding balance.
 
Ref: DRN93881332I accept that Halifaxs  actions and error would have caused Mr W a degree of distress  and 
inconvenience. However, Mr Ws account  wasnt sent to collections as he ended up 
switching his facility  to another bank. So while Ive considered  everything  Mr W has said in 
the round,  I think that Halifaxs actions caused  Mr W a moderate  amount of distress, 
inconvenience, anxiety  and suffering. 
Our website  sets out a compensation range of up to £500 where a consumer has suffered 
moderate distress and inconvenience. And while I accept that Mr W doesnt think  it is 
enough, the amount Halifax has agreed to pay is at the maximum end of this scale. Id also 
point out that Ive not seen anything to suggest  that insolvency proceedings of any sort were  
instigated against  Mr W and if any negative  information was recorded  (Ive not seen  that any 
was) on his credit file this has already  been or will be removed.  So having carefully 
considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, Im satisfied 
that the £500 Halifax has agreed to pay for the distress and inconvenience that its actions 
caused is fair and reasonable  here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax  has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case  and Im not 
requiring it to do anything  more. As this is the case,  its up to Mr W to decide whether  he 
wishes to accept Halifaxs offer of a refund of the interest, fees and charges he paid from 
August 2017 onwards, with interest  at 8% simple a year,  together  with £500  in 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9388133