K820x#14complaint
Mr L has asked that we consider two complaints about the service DPO  has received from 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). Mr L, a partner  of DPO is representing DPO in 
this complaint. In this decision, I will refer to the party bringing the complaint as Mr L. 
Mr L has complained  that NatWest failed to pay an agreed amount of compensation for the 
delays DPO  experienced in receiving loan monies in 2017  (which I will refer to as the 2017  
complaint). 
Mr L has also complained  about NatWests delays  in dealing with further funding requests  
from DPO  in 2018. He says that DPO has suffered losses due to the delays,  including 
£20,000 of lost income tax relief, (which I will refer to as the 2018 complaint). 
background
The background to this complaint is explained in the provisional  decision I issued  on 26 June 
2019. A copy of that provisional  decision is attached at the end of this decision. 
NatWest accepts my provisional  decision and has nothing further to add.
Mr L doesnt accept  my provisional decision.  Hes explained why in his emails dated 27 June 
2019, 28 June  2019, 3 July 2019 and 10 July 2019. Ive summarised his key points below:
 With regard to the 2017  complaint,  Mr L has provided a further copy  of an email 
dated Wednesday  29 November 2017,  in which his business account manager said, 
As I said I will confirm  all refund amounts to you tomorrow. Mr L has said again that 
he believes this amounts to a binding agreement  to refund the amounts detailed in 
that email.
 Mr L also says that NatWest only refunded the additional £779 of interest because 
they felt responsible  for his loss.
 With regard to the 2018  complaint,  Mr L says he vehemently disagrees  that he 
contributed to the difficulties or losses sustained  by DPO, by not providing  clear 
instructions to his account manager  about  the amounts required and purposes  of the 
loan. 
 Mr L has also pointed that Ive made no specific comment  on some  of the pieces of 
evidence hes provided. Hes again  highlighted the poor service he received from his 
business account manager, particularly  in assuring him that he would exceed his 
expectations, only to go on and disappoint  him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only briefly  referred to Mr Ls submissions in this decision,  Id like to reassure 
him that Ive carefully considered all of his submissions and evidence,  in full.
Ref: DRN95808052I understand that Mr L strongly believes he has no responsibility for DPO  being unable to 
meet its payment obligations  as they fell due. I also understand that Mr L is adamant  that his 
complaint should  be upheld.  However, the point I have to decide is whether or not NatWest 
is responsible for the losses that Mr L is claiming.  I agree there  were  occasions when 
NatWest didnt provide  Mr L with good customer service during the 2017 and 2018 
application processes. But I remain of the view that the amount of compensation NatWest 
has paid Mr L for that poor service is sufficient  to compensate him for the distress  and 
inconvenience he and DPO suffered. None of the additional or repeated points  Mr L has 
made in response  to my provisional  decision, have caused me to reach  a different decision 
on that point.
I also remain of the view that because NatWest wasnt contractually  bound to advance  loan 
monies until the loan agreement  was completed in early  August 2017, it isnt responsible for 
any costs, interests or charges that DPO incurred prior to the date of that loan agreement.  
With regard to the 2018 complaint, no formal  agreement  to provide further funds was agreed 
by NatWest. So any losses  suffered by DPO  as a result of having  insufficient funds to meet 
its obligations as they fell due, cant be attributed to NatWest. 
Having carefully considered Mr Ls further submissions, and having concluded they dont 
affect my decision, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusion set out in my provisional 
decision. So I dont  require NatWest to do anything  further in relation to Mr Ls 2017 
complaint or 2018 complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision in relation to both the 2017 complaint and the 2018 complaint is that the 
amounts already paid to DPO by National Westminster Bank Plc for inconvenience,  are 
sufficient to compensate  DPO for the delays and poor customer  service received during the 
2017 and 2018 loan application processes. 
I make  no further award against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95808053COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr L has asked that we consider two complaints about the service DPO  has received from National 
Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest).  Mr L, a partner of DPO is representing DPO in this complaint. In 
this provisional  decision,  I will refer to the party bringing  the complaint as Mr L. 
Mr L has complained  that NatWest failed to pay an agreed amount  of compensation  for the delays 
DPO experienced in receiving loan monies in 2017 (which I will refer to as the 2017  complaint).  
Mr L has also complained about NatWests  delays  in dealing with further funding requests from DPO 
in 2018. He says that DPO has suffered losses due to the delays, including £20,000 of lost income tax 
relief, (which I will refer to as the 2018 complaint). 
background
Before I start to explain my provisional  decision, Id like to reassure the parties that Ive reviewed all of 
the available evidence on the complaint, including  emails, text messages, written  documents and 
submissions of the parties. But Ill only be referring to evidence which is relevant  to the key issues in 
dispute, in this provisional  decision. 
Ill first address the 2017 complaint, and then Ill go on to consider the 2018 complaint.
2017 complaint
DPO holds a business banking  account with NatWest, and Mr L and Mrs L (partners of DPO) hold 
personal banking accounts with NatWest. In early 2017 DPO  requested new loan facilities from 
NatWest. The loans were  agreed and the funds were advanced in August 2017.  Mr L complained  at 
that time, about delays DPO had experienced  in receiving those loan monies. To resolve that 
complaint, on 26 October 2017,  NatWest made the following payments to DPO:
£500  for the inconvenience
£2,739.24 to reimburse credit card interest incurred during the period of delay 
£20 charge on the account
Then, in July 2018, following  a complaint to the chief executives office,  NatWest also reimbursed 
DPO a further  £779.00 of credit card interest.
But Mr L says NatWest hasnt yet refunded the additional  amounts detailed below, which he says it 
agreed to do: 
£2,193.91 HMRC interest
£619.96 credit card charges incurred  in relation to payments  to HMRC
£36 NatWest Account  Charges (referral charges)  (which is also referred to as £46 in the 
emails between  Mr L and our service)
£367.09 charges incurred on his C credit card
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls 2017 complaint and concluded  that NatWest should  refund 
the £367.09 charges incurred on Mr Ls C credit  card. But she didnt agree that any of the other 
charges should be refunded.
Mr L disagreed  with our investigators  view and provided  further arguments and information  for our 
service to consider regarding  the other outstanding amounts. Another of our investigators considered  
the further information  and arguments and concluded that NatWest should  refund some  of the HMRC 
related charges. Mr L disagreed with our second investigators view.  He said DPO  should be refunded 
Ref: DRN95808054all of the amounts  that he believed  NatWest had agreed to pay him. Mr L requested an ombudsmans  
decision on this complaint.
2018 complaint
In February 2018 Mr L approached DPOs account manager to request an increased  overdraft to 
assist DPO  in meeting payment its obligations due over the next few months.  An initial overdraft  of 
£30,000 was agreed, but was insufficient to meet all of DPOs obligations. In the following  four 
months, a number of emails  and text messages were  exchanged,  between  Mr L and his account  
manager. In those  communications, Mr L made a number  of different lending requests.  His account 
manager asked for clarification of the amounts and purposes of the loans, gave various assurances 
that funds  would be made  available, and provided Mr L with advice on how he should manage DPOs 
business account in the meantime. 
Our investigators considered Mr Ls 2018 complaint and concluded that NatWest didnt need to do 
anything further to put things  right. NatWest had already  refunded a valuation  fee of £1,740 and paid 
compensation of £1,000 for the inconvenience suffered. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators views. He said if a lending decision had been communicated  
earlier than it was, DPO wouldve avoided incurring credit card interest and HMRC charges. He also 
believes DPO wouldve  been able to make the April 2018 pension fund contribution in time, and 
thereby secure £20,000  in tax relief.  
Mr L requested an ombudsmans decision on this complaint too.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of these complaints.  
2017 complaint 
Ive first considered Mr Ls complaint that his account manager agreed to refund  the payments 
referred to in the background section above, then failed to do so. The basis for this complaint  is an 
email dated  12 December 2017  in which  his manager said:
For the sake  of absolute clarity as I am keen as you to conclude this matter without further 
delay, can you confirm  the following are the correct amounts & I have  not omitted  anything 
from my calculations having gone through all the information that has been  provided [an] from 
NatWest accounts & facilities  that you have.
Ive thought about this email  but I dont agree it amounted to a binding  agreement  on NatWest to 
make the payments detailed in the email. Looking  at the language used in the email,  Im of the view it 
was a request  for Mr L to confirm the amounts  he was asking for. So I dont agree  the email 
constituted an agreement on behalf of NatWest to refund  those amounts.
But I also need to provisionally decide whether NatWest was responsible for any of those  losses. And 
having thought about that, Im currently of the view it wasnt. NatWest  has explained that loan facilities 
of £378,000 and £47,000 were agreed on 21 August 2017. The £378,000  loan was drawn down after 
the agreement was collected  from DPO on 24 August 2017, and the £47,000 loan was drawn down 
after that agreement was collected from DPO on 25 August  2017. So from the point that NatWest 
contractually agreed to provide funding to DPO, it was a matter of days before it provided  the loan 
monies. On that basis,  Im provisionally of the view that NatWest isnt responsible for the amounts 
detailed in the December  2017 email.  
NatWest has accepted  responsibility for delays in relation to the 2017 loan. So that isnt in dispute 
and therefore isnt something  I need to make a finding on. But as Ive explained, those  delays took 
Ref: DRN95808055place before  the loan was agreed. And NatWest has paid £500  in compensation  for those delays, and 
refunded £3,538.24 in interest and account charges. Thats more  compensation  that I would ordinarily  
award, for delays in agreeing the details of a loan. So Im currently of the view that NatWest doesnt 
need to do anything further in relation to the 2017 complaint. 
2018 complaint
Mr L says he relied  on assurances from his account manager,  in 2018, that overdraft  or loan monies 
would be made available to him in time to meet DPOs financial obligations  in the first half of 2018.  He 
also says he relied on advice from his account manager about the best way to pay DPOs debts as 
they fell due, for example,  by using credit  cards and personal funds, while the application for an 
extended overdraft or loan was dealt  with. 
In reliance on those assurances, Mr L says he didnt seek alternative funding  until June 2018. He 
believes that if NatWest had dealt with DPOs request for additional funding in a timely manner,  the 
loan wouldve been declined in March / April and he wouldve  sought funding from an alternative 
source much sooner. As a result he believes that DPO would neither have incurred the charges  
relating to returned cheques, credit card fees and interest,  nor lost the £20,000 tax relief. In support of 
this, Mr L has advised that in June 2018, within  4 working days, he secured  a £250,000  loan for DPO, 
from another lender.
I cant  comment on the loan advanced to DPO  in June 2018, or speculate  about  what  Mr L may or 
may not have  done, had things  worked out differently. I can only make my decision  based on the 
available evidence about what actually  happened. 
Ive carefully considered the information and submissions about what  happened.  And I agree that 
DPOs business account manager provided poor service to Mr L and did contribute to the difficulties 
he had in meeting the financial obligations of DPO as they fell due. I dont think  it was unreasonable  
of Mr L to think, on the basis  of his communications  with his account manager,  that his requests  for 
funds were being taken forward.
But Mr L also contributed to these difficulties  by not providing clear instructions to his account  
manager about the amounts  required and purposes of the loan, so a formal  application for funding 
could be made. Instead, his communications seemed to be largely focused  on short  term requests for 
interim funding to meet immediate payment deadlines. And ultimately those  payments were  the 
responsibility of DPO  to meet, not NatWest.  If Mr L wasnt able to secure  funding  from NatWest, it was 
up to him to secure alternative funding to meet DPOs obligations as they fell due, which  he appears 
to have done,  within 4 working days in June 2018.
Having considered  all the available  evidence,  Im currently minded to conclude that NatWest isnt 
responsible for the losses that DPO suffered  as a result of delays in securing an additional  overdraft  
or loan facility in 2018. But that doesnt mean NatWest has done nothing  wrong here. Im currently of 
the view that the poor service Mr L received from NatWest, during the period in which  he was seeking 
the additional loan monies for DPO,  has caused  DPO inconvenience. But, I think  the £1,000 that 
NatWest has already paid to Mr L in compensation for this, is sufficient  to address the inconvenience 
suffered by DPO. 
my provisional  decision
In relation to both the 2017  complaint and the 2018 complaint my provisional  decision is that the 
amounts already paid to DPO  by NatWest for inconvenience, are sufficient  to compensate DPO for 
the delays and poor customer service received  during the 2017 and 2018 loan application processes. 
Im currently  minded to make no further  award  against NatWest.
Ref: DRN95808056I now invite  NatWest and DPO  to provide  any final comments or evidence theyd like me to consider 
before I issue  my final decision on this complaint. 
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580805