K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  declined his claim under his motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to pay his claim.  
background
Mr I said his car wouldnt start when he returned  to it in a park,  so he left it overnight.  He said 
the car was then subject to an arson attack.  But Ageas declined his claim as it said there  
were inconsistencies  in Mr Is versions of events and it found his account implausible. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Ageas 
decision was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr I replied that hed left the car in the park rather than pay for its recovery to save money as 
he thought it just needed a new battery. He thought Ageas should have checked  the cars  
electronic control  unit (ECU) which would show that the car wouldnt start. And he provided 
reports from the attending fire service and police. But these didnt change Ageas stance. So 
Mr I asked for his complaint to be reviewed, and its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas said it had declined Mr Is claim because it had concerns about it. It said one of these 
was that Mr I left his car unattended in a dark insecure car park rather  than call someone  to 
attend or to recover the car. It also said there  were inconsistencies in Mr Is account and also 
in his later appeal against its decision to decline his claim. 
Our remit  in cases like this is to investigate whether the insurer  acted fairly and reasonably  
and, most  importantly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when it made  the 
decision about the claim. I can see that Mr Is policy contains a general condition that allows 
Ageas to decline a claim if it finds it to be false or exaggerated.
Ive looked at Ageas file and I can see that it had many concerns about  Mr Is claim. These 
were based  on what  Mr I told it, his phone records, and an independent investigators report. 
It set these concerns  out in detail in a letter to Mr I and gave him opportunity  to respond.  It 
wasnt then satisfied that hed explained  the inconsistencies or contradictions. And so it 
declined the claim.
Mr I lately provided  reports from the attending  police and the fire brigade. I can see that 
Ageas considered these and decided that they didnt  provide evidence  to change  its 
decision. Ive looked at the statements and I cant see that they show who caused  the fire. 
So I cant say that Ageas acted unreasonably in not changing its decision.
Mr I thought Ageas should have checked  the cars ECU. But I dont think it disputed that the 
car wouldnt start. So I think it had already considered this in making  its decision.  
Ref: DRN93091162So I think Ageas  reasonably investigated  Mr Is claim and after considering  the evidence I 
think it reasonably decided to decline it because of the number of inconsistences  and 
contradictions found. I think  its entitled  to do this by the policy  terms and conditions.  So I 
cant say Ageas did anything wrong  or require  it to change its decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9309116