K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that a car she is financing through an agreement with Close  Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers)  is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. The first in July 2019 and a more 
recent provisional decision in September. An extract from that decision is set out below.
Miss C took receipt of a used car in July 2018. She financed the deal through a conditional  
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The car had completed just over 65,000 miles and was 
about nine years old.
Miss C says she first reported a problem with the car, to the dealership, within the first 
couple of months  and that she returned  it to them at the end of 2018 and again in early 
2019. She says that she complained about  a bad smell inside the car but the dealership just 
vacuumed it and the smell didnt  go away. So she took the car to another  garage and in 
March 2019 they said thered been a poor repair to the rear panel  and water  was getting in. 
They also noted  that the rear bumper and quarter panel were a different shade. The 
suggestion appears to have  been  that the car had been in an accident.
So Miss C complained to Close Brothers.  She said she wanted  to reject the car. But Close  
Brothers disagreed  with her. They  asked  Miss C to provide evidence of the repairs that had 
been completed on the car but she didnt have anything other than the report from the 
garage who had more recently  inspected the damage.  So Close  Brothers said they couldnt  
uphold her complaint  as there was insufficient  evidence the fault she was complaining of had 
been there at the point of supply  when they were responsible for the cars condition.
So Miss C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. 
He was persuaded Miss C did return the car to the dealership and he thought  the garage 
report shed provided  was sufficient evidence to suggest the damage,  she now complained 
of, was present  when  the car was supplied to her and that subsequent repairs  from the 
dealership (vacuuming) had not resolved the problem. So he suggested the business  allow  
her to end her finance agreement; refund her deposit and refund any finance instalments for 
periods when Miss C didnt have use of the car.
But Close Brothers  didnt  agree with the investigators opinion.  They  checked with the 
dealership who confirmed they had no record of Miss C returning the car to them. So Close  
Brothers said in that case the first time any issues were reported to them  was in March 2019, 
more than six months into the agreement.  They said the relevant legislation would therefore 
put the onus on Miss C to prove  faults  were there or developing  at the point the car was 
supplied to her. They  didnt think the garage  report shed provided evidenced this. They said 
it wasnt an independent report and didnt suggest  when the inadequate repair had been 
completed or whether it was present at the point of supply. They said the images provided 
were not tied to the report and it was unclear what part of the car they referred  to or whether 
it was indeed Miss Cs car. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98461412I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I know  that will disappoint Miss C so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. The conditional  sale agreement 
is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close  Brothers is responsible. 
The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss C. The car 
here was around  nine years old and had travelled 65,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
Close Brothers are right to suggest  that legislation would  encourage us to assume that if a 
car developed a fault in the first six months it was likely to have been there from the point  of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
but if the fault happened after that wed usually  look to the consumer to prove this was the 
case.
Miss C says she reported the issue to the dealership within  the first couple of months  but on 
its own I dont find this testimony persuasive. Its not corroborated and the dealership 
havent any record either. So the first report I have of any issue  is the call Miss C had with 
Close Brothers on 18 March 2019.
Im not currently persuaded that it was most  likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  I say that because: 
Ref: DRN98461413Miss C had had the car for over eight months  when  she complained of problems. I 
think its likely she wouldve  noticed  them earlier if they were  developing at the point 
of supply
I dont think the garage  report could be said to be independent  as they were  paid by 
Miss C and theres no declaration that their first duty is to the court, as there would 
be if the evidence  was from a suitably qualified  independent inspector  
theres no suggestion in the report that the faults were a pre-existing condition
the garage report says further  investigation  is required  and doesnt  say the fault 
makes the car not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply
the photographic  evidence  is poor. I cant see any misalignment  in the door;  its 
unclear where  the leak is and its unclear whether the car is Miss Cs. 
So unless Miss C can provide evidence to demonstrate the damage the garage has alluded 
to was there or developing at the point of supply and that the fault makes the car not of 
satisfactory quality, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint or 
ask Close  Brothers to take any further action.
In response to this provisional decision Miss C may wish to consider commissioning an 
independent engineers report to provide  their view on what  the faults are and whether  they 
were likely to have  been present or developing  in the car at the point  of supply. If thats  
something she wishes to consider our investigator  will be able to provide some guidance.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt  provide any additional  information but Miss C did. She commissioned 
an independent engineers report.
The engineer said the boot floor had clearly been subject to repair  he went  on to explain 
that their was evidence  of corrosion which in his opinion suggested water ingress into the 
boot. He noted that, unusually, the boot floor had four holes in it which he assumed was to 
allow water to escape. He went on to explain  that the boot floor had been untidily sealed and 
that there  was corrosion  to the chassis legs; underside  of the boot floor and to the welds  
between the floor and the chassis legs.
The inspector said that he could accurately comment that these  repairs  were not carried  out 
within the last 12 months  as the corrosion and weathering was indicative of the repair  having  
been done for some time. He said some repairs had been done early  in the vehicles life and 
an attempt had been made  to paint the boot floor to hide the corrosion.
my new findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the new report provided by Miss C clarifies the presence of a problem and provides 
compelling evidence  that the cars  boot has been subject to water  ingress  for sometime.  The 
independent experts view is clear: he thinks that the extent of the corrosion means that the 
damage was present  when Miss C took receipt of the car and at the point at which Close  
Brothers were responsible  for its quality.
Ref: DRN98461414So I think there is now compelling evidence that this fault was pre-existing and, as Close 
Brothers have been unable  to repair it, I think it would  now be fair to allow Miss C to reject 
the car and terminate  her finance  agreement  with them.
Its usual in these  circumstances for this service to ask for the deposit to be repaid and see 
no reason to deviate from that here. Its clear that Miss C has been inconvenienced by this 
issue and Ive seen,  for instance, that shes had to arrange alternative transport. I think  in the 
circumstances that Close  Brothers should compensate her for this and I think  £100 is 
reasonable. Its difficult to establish how long Miss C has been without the car but I think its 
clear her enjoyment of the vehicle would have  been impacted. In the circumstances Im 
asking Close  Brothers to refund two monthly  finance instalments in respect of loss of use 
and loss of enjoyment. They should also reimburse the cost of the independent inspection 
Miss C has had to commission to prove the car was not of satisfactory  quality.
my expected decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im now expecting to uphold  this complaint and tell Close  
Brothers Limited to:
allow Miss C to reject the car and terminate  the finance agreement with nothing more 
to pay 
collect the car at no cost to Miss C
refund  two monthly finance instalments and add 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
refund  Miss Cs deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Cs credit  file in relation to 
this issue
pay Miss C £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced
refund  the cost of the independent inspection when Miss C provides the invoice
Neither Close Brothers nor Miss C responded to my latest provisional decision so, having 
reconsidered all of the available evidence, Ive not been persuaded to change it.
Ref: DRN98461415my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
allow Miss C to reject the car and terminate  the finance agreement with nothing more 
to pay 
collect the car at no cost to Miss C
refund  two monthly finance instalments and add 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
refund  Miss Cs deposit and add 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Cs credit  file in relation to 
this issue
pay Miss C £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced
refund  the cost of the independent inspection when Miss C provides the invoice
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9846141