K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (Casheuronet) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about thirteen payday loans and three instalment loans Casheuronet 
(under its trading names of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket)  provided  to Mr B from      
April 2011 onwards. Mr Bs last loan was provided in March 2013. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint  and thought  the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Casheuronet disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr B could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could repay  his loans in a sustainable manner.  And I think that this is 
wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
Ref: DRN92021882and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr B, I think that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely  to have been able to 
make his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr B was into his seventh month of owing Casheuronet money. And he 
was now borrowing a substantial proportion of his income. In my view, Mr Bs loan 
history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his inability to settle his 
loans over the life of the credit agreement.   
Mr B continued to be provided  with new loans shortly after having  repaid previous 
ones. And he was even  provided  with an instalment  loan on the same day that he 
was provided with his last payday loan. So Casheuronet ought  to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr B was having  to borrow further to cover the hole the 
repayment of his previous loans left in his finances and that Mr Bs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably. 
Mr B was provided with loans  for a period  of over two years. I accept that some of the 
loans were for smaller amounts. But Mr B wasnt making any real inroads into what 
he owed Casheuronet and his indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended 
period of time. This led to Mr B paying large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service 
a debt to Casheuronet over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Casheuronet continued to provide borrowing from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr B owed Casheuronet money was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint and Casheuronet should put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
Ref: DRN92021883refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on payday loans seven to thirteen and the 
three instalment  loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr B owed Casheuronet money means  that any information still 
recorded about payday loans  seven to thirteen and the three  instalment loans is 
adverse. So all entries about  these loans (where they remain) should be removed 
from Mr Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Casheuronet) should  pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202188