K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy because the price  he was quoted for a buildings  and contents insurance 
policy when he went to Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) directly,  was cheaper 
than the price he was quoted on his annual renewal. He believes hes been overcharged for 
years and he would like a refund.    
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this
final decision.  I said I was unlikely  to uphold  this complaint  and I include an extract  from my 
decision here:
Mr C has had a buildings insurance  policy with RSA since the 1960s. He originally had a 
separate contents  policy with another insurer, but he moved this part of the policy to RSA 
after he retired. According to RSAs  records this particular insurance policy  for buildings  and 
contents started in 2003. 
After speaking to a friend in 2018, Mr C went online and found a policy on the RSA website 
for £115.24. But his most recent renewal with RSA had been £376.25. Mr C feels that RSA 
has been  taking advantage  of him as a loyal customer and he wrote  to RSA for an 
explanation. 
When RSA looked  at Mr Cs premium history it advised that nothing had gone wrong.  It said 
that the policy Mr C had found was a different policy to the one he had purchased with them 
in 2003. RSA also said that whilst they are both home insurance policies, they each had their 
own specific terms and conditions of the cover they provide. RSA also pointed  out that the 
policy Mr C had found was basic cover, and that a policy of similar  cover to what  he already 
had would cost £293.04. 
RSA also explained  it regularly reviews its products and over time,  new products and rates 
are introduced.  And that although these newer  policies  are priced  broadly the same way as 
older products, there are some  differences, which explains why premiums can differ. RSA 
also advised  that new products attract new business discounts and special offers which  will 
make a new price seem  attractive. But that eligibility for a new policy  is often restricted. 
But Mr C remained unhappy.  He says the response from RSA didnt make any sense. So, he 
referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator investigated this case and she felt that RSA had acted unfairly. So, she 
upheld the complaint and asked RSA to refund a proportion of the premium  up to 2018, 
based on the premium  that was paid in 2008.  But RSA disagreed. It said that the investigator  
had misunderstood  how the initial premium  in 2003 was calculated, which meant  her 
calculations were incorrect, and that no refund was due. So, the matter has been  passed to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN96688812Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.  I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr C, so Id like to explain  why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
Second, I would also like to add that each insurer,  in determining its policys  costs, is entitled 
to form its own view of risk. And from this, it decides the costs  associated  with the risk. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models.
Mr C is mainly unhappy that his policy premiums were so high in comparison to the 
alternative quote he received from RSA.  And I can see why Mr C is unhappy. Having spoken 
to a friend he cant see why he was paying  what he feels was a high premium. So, Im going  
to go through  the premium history  to see if anything did go wrong.
premium history
2003 - £169.46
2004 - £289.96
2005 - £274.81
2006 - £259.98
2007 - £269.05
2008 - £289.35
2009 - £296.88
2010 - £314.57
2011 - £328.26
2012 - £351.63
2013 - £357.01
2014 - £399.05
2015 - £446.93
2016 - £402.21
2017 - £361.96
2018 - £376.96
When Mr C initially took out this policy in August 2003, he paid £79.27. A few days  later he 
added an additional cover which increased  his premium by a further £23.00. Seven months 
later in March 2004 he added further cover, which increased his premium  again  by a further 
£67.19. So, in total in 2003 Mr C paid a premium  of £169.46.
However, this wasnt the true cost of cover  for the year as this premium didnt equate to a full 
years cover. The additional cover Mr C took out in March  2004 was only priced for the last 
five months of the policy year. So, taking this into consideration, if Mr C had included  all the 
cover he had for a full year, the policy wouldve cost close to £260.00. So, Im going  to take 
2004 as a more  appropriate starting  point  as we know from this premium  what Mr C paid for 
full cover for a full year.  
Over the next number of years up to 2009  the premium  stayed steady under £300.  From that 
point up to 2014 it rose steadily to approximately £400. The premium rose sharply in 2015. 
But it decreased again, settling at £376.96  in 2018.
Ref: DRN96688813Mr C had been with RSA for a long time.  And if I thought RSA should have realised Mr C 
wasnt the type of person who shopped around for cheaper insurance regularly, and I 
thought RSA increased the price  just because Mr C didnt engage at renewal, that wouldnt 
be fair. But I dont think thats  the case here.  
RSA has told us several things about the premium  history. A lot of what  RSA has told us is 
commercially sensitive  to its business, so I cant set it out in this decision. But I can set out in 
general what weve been told.
RSA have  provided a graph which shows that there  were changes in its rates and its view of 
the risk of insuring Mr Cs property. 
RSA has also told us that in 2007  2008 there was a change in its buildings sums insured 
across all its policies,  and this affected  premiums across its whole business.  And that in 
2006 Mr C made a small claim which also affected his premium.  There  was also an increase 
in insurance premium tax increase in 2015.
These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the premium. And Im satisfied  that the 
premiums offered over the lifetime of this policy are correct and that RSA has provided 
evidence supporting this. Theres nothing to suggest RSA was charging Mr C more for his 
insurance, just because  hed had his policy with it for a long time and wasnt  engaging with 
the renewal cost. So, I think Mr C has been  treated fairly.
alternative policy
But Mr C was able to secure an alternative  premium  quote  with RSA for a fraction  of the 
price. Mr C has questioned  how this can happen. RSA says that the policy Mr C was quoted 
for is a basic policy with a lot less cover. It also says that as a new policy it wouldve had a 
new business discount so was always going  to be lower in this competitive market. 
Its difficult  to compare two different policies even if they are from the same  insurer.  The 
policies wont be identical and there would be differences  in cover including  terms and 
conditions and different  excesses. New quotes also usually include online or new business 
discounts or can be a new product altogether where  the discount  is fairly substantial. 
In this case RSA has confirmed that the product that Mr C was quoted  for was a basic 
buildings and contents product with less cover than Mr C already had. So, RSA has provided 
a quote for this product, taking into account  the full cover Mr C actually had on his previous 
policy. And it has told us that a similar product to what  he already had wouldve cost 
£293.04. Its also confirmed that this price  would include a discount  for new business.  So, 
the new quote Mr C obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is also likely to increase in price. 
And looking at the figures its likely that this new product would  end up costing  more in the 
long run than the product Mr C already had. 
So, I dont  think it would be fair to compare  the difference  in cost between the policy Mr C 
had and the policy he was subsequently quoted for. While Mr C, when he decided to shop 
around in 2018, obtained a cheaper quote   this doesnt automatically mean that RSA had 
treated Mr C unfairly during the years he had the policy.
Overall RSA has shown  that Mr Cs premium increases were reasonable. And I dont think 
over the lifetime of the policy  there was any point where RSA took advantage of Mr C. The 
renewal letters that Ive seen ask Mr C to get in contact to discuss any changes  he wished to 
Ref: DRN96688814make. And I can see that Mr C never did this, so I assume he was happy with what  he was 
paying. Further to this the alternative quote he received was for a completely different type of 
cover, and I can see that similar cover wouldve cost Mr C a similar price on the alternative  
product.
So overall, I havent seen  anything to suggest that RSA increased Mr Cs premiums  unfairly 
or did anything wrong.
my findings
Both parties  have replied and confirmed  theyve received my provisional  decision.  RSA has 
accepted my findings. But Mr C has made some further points which I will deal with below.
In deciding  this case  Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments afresh to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. And having done  
so, I still dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr C, 
so Id like to explain why.
Mr C says the difference in premiums  is £261.01 and its wrong for a loyal customer to be 
charged this much more than a new customer. He says the media agree that loyal 
customers are being  overcharged and he wont continue to do business with an insurer  hes 
lost confidence  in. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why the premiums at renewal on the old product 
were different to the premium Mr C obtained  when  he shopped around  for another  product. 
In short, the product  Mr C was quoted for was a basic buildings and contents  product with 
less cover than he already had. And RSA has confirmed that a product from the newer 
range, with similar cover, would have cost a similar premium,  after the new business 
discount was recouped,  to what Mr C was already paying.
Mr C thinks because he obtained  a lower  quote online from RSA this shows he was being 
treated differently to newer customers.
I understand why Mr C thinks this and I appreciate  this issue has received media coverage.  
But insurers  are allowed  to offer new business  discounts, and many services across the UK 
use similar methods to attract new customers.  Insurers who offer discounted prices at the 
beginning will attempt to recoup these discounts through the continued  renewal by the 
customer. And I think it's fair that an insurer recoups that discount over the subsequent 
years. So, its likely  that the premium  on any new policy Mr C takes out now will 
subsequently increase  over the years. 
Mr C wasnt locked into this policy, and I can see from the renewal letters Mr C was 
encouraged to call if he wasnt renewing or wanted to discuss  the policy. RSA wouldnt 
automatically move  Mr C to a cheaper policy, as the cheaper policy may not provide the 
cover required. And Mr C was free to move to an alternative insurer or policy  if he wasnt  
happy with the price RSA was offering him at renewal. Even though  Mr C did get a cheaper  
policy elsewhere,  the insurance market is a competitive market and the policy he found 
provided lesser cover.  So, overall,  I dont think  RSA treated him unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN96688815Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June  2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668881