K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Skipton Building  Society failed to fully assess  her potential tax liability 
when recommending surrendering various funds  (to reinvest this money in more suitable  
ones). This led to her facing an unnecessary £9,000 plus tax bill.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 29 January 2020.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Skipton agreed  to pay £1,000.
Mrs H, in effect, didnt accept my decision,  reiterating that she had not understood the many  
documents she had been pressured  into signing in Autumn 2018 and contacted her advisor 
to discuss this but did not get a satisfactory response to her concerns.
She also enclosed  a letter from her accountants. This said that if she had had no rental 
income in the year to 5 April 2018,  and there  was no chargeable event, her tax liability would 
have been £325.95. The inclusion of the chargeable event  increased  the tax liability to 
£4,190.65, an increase  of £3,864.70.This,  it said, indicated that, even allowing for the 
advisor relying on her statement about  rental  income, the decision to proceed with the 
chargeable event  did cause a significant extra tax liability. It said that if Mrs H had been 
made aware  of this, shed said she would not have proceeded  with the switch.
It enclosed figures laying out the relevant calculations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
For the reasons  previously outlined, I am satisfied that Skipton were not primarily 
responsible for Mrs Hs £9,000 plus tax bill and that £1,000 is a reasonable sum for it to pay 
in lieu of its limited responsibility for this occurrence.
I acknowledge that her accountant has raised an additional concern, not part of the original 
complaint, that even  without the rental income  Skiptons advice would have resulted in a £325  
tax liability. However, I dont feel this alters  my fundamental  view about the merits of this 
complaint, or my conclusion that £1,000  is a reasonable payment for Skiptons  limited failings.
Firstly, there  were  good grounds to make various  fund switches, including to move out of 
poorly performing  funds,  and these were fully explained in the suitability report. So I am not 
persuaded that a £325 tax liability would have invalidated these or that Mrs H would not 
have gone ahead if fully aware  of this. Secondly, I accept that Skipton did not provide a 
breakdown of the potential tax consequences of its advice, excluding the rental issue, and so 
did not make  Mrs H aware of a possible small liability. Although I am not sure this would 
have been apparent from the figures she provided at the time.
Crucially, I still believe  that £1,000  offers a fair and reasonable sum in lieu of Skiptons failings 
as I remained persuaded that it was not responsible  for Mrs Hs failure  to reveal  that she was 
still receiving a substantial  rental  income; the overwhelming reason for the £9,000 bill. 
Ref: DRN99353812my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the extent described above and instruct  Skipton Building Society to 
pay Mrs H £1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99353813provisional decision
complaint
Mrs H complains that Skipton Building  Society failed to fully assess  her potential  tax liability when  
recommending surrendering  various funds (to reinvest this money in more suitable  ones). This led to 
her facing an unnecessary  £9,000 plus tax bill.
background
Skipton rejected her complaint, saying that the advisor  had checked on her various sources  of income 
and Mrs H had said she was no longer  receiving rental income.  It was on this basis that the advisor 
calculated that the surrender  would  not push her into the higher tax bracket (resulting in a tax liability).
An investigator at this service felt the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Skipton had not 
provided sufficient  warning  about the potential tax consequences of the surrender in the advisors 
recommendations letter.  He therefore felt it should  pay Mrs Hs tax bill.
Skipton disagreed, saying:
The advisor could only rely on what Mrs H told her at the time i.e. that she no longer 
received any income  from rental properties
She recorded this on the documentation and Mrs H signed to say this was correct
It is not responsible for contacting a clients accountant to double-check on their finances
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I wish to confirm  that I have  read all the submissions from both parties  but do not intend,  at this stage, 
to repeat most of what has been said as I am satisfied  the investigator did a thorough job in 
considering and responding to all the major points. In my view, there is little dispute about the 
evidence or what happened. Instead, the disagreement centres on how far Skipton  should have gone 
to check  that Mrs H was no longer receiving any rental  income;  in effect, whether  she should  not have 
simply accepted at face value  Mrs Hs apparent confirmation that she no longer had any income 
stream from this source.
There is no dispute that Mrs H did suffer a substantial tax liability as a result of this advice  and Ive no 
doubt she wouldnt have  gone ahead with the surrender if shed known this was a possibility. So what  
happened was clearly  very unfortunate but the question is whether Skipton was mainly or primarily 
responsible for this outcome i.e. did the advisor  clearly  do something wrong? Or was Mrs H partially 
or primarily  responsible for what happened.
In my view,  the evidence strongly indicates that the advisor did ask Mrs H about her rental income and 
that Mrs H said she no longer received any as this income now went to her son. I can see no other 
plausible explanation for the advisors  contemporaneous note to this effect.
I think  the advisor was entitled to rely on Mrs Hs reply and do not believe  she or Skipton  were 
required to take further steps to ascertain  whether this was correct, such as contacting Mrs Hs 
accountant. I therefore dont  accept the advice  itself was flawed, based on the information available to 
the advisor at the time.  So I do not think Skipton can reasonably be held liable for what was Mrs Hs 
mistake. I dont think it would be fair for it to pay the £9,000 tax bill.
Ref: DRN99353814I share the investigators view that the suitability  letter ought to have given a more explicit warning 
about the potential tax liability;  something which might have led Mr H to speak to her accountant.  I 
acknowledge that this advice  involved a very substantial  sum  and portion of Mrs Hs assets  and 
the suitability letter was a crucial piece  of advice in terms of Mrs Hs decision to go ahead with this 
switch. As such,  the absence  of a detailed tax liability warning was a significant  failing. As such, I am 
currently minded  to instruct  Skipton to pay Mrs H £1,000  in lieu of the undoubted  trouble and upset 
this has caused.
Finally, I note that Skipton failed to fully assess Mrs Hs income/tax situation previously, in 2012, and 
accepted liability for this. Having  considered both parties  arguments about  this, I dont feel it affects 
the merits of this decision  either  way.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint to the extent described above and instruct Skipton  to pay 
Mrs H £1,000.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935381