K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in May 1998.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs S bought the policy in May 1998.  The PPI was sold to her when she applied  for a store 
card by filling in a leaflet  while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs S says she wasnt given an option of having  the store card without the PPI. She says 
that had she been given  the option,  she would  have declined it. So, Ive thought about what 
shes said alongside the additional  information  Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ss credit agreement. This shows that Mrs S was 
asked to select whether  or not she wanted  the PPI. Under the section Payment & Purchase 
Protection, Mrs S was asked to place a tick a box if she wanted  the cover  added to her 
account.
Looking at the credit agreement  which  Mrs S signed, I can see a tick was placed in a box 
next to the statement Yes, I want my Account  covered by Payment and Purchase Protection  
Insurance (subject to eligibility).  Please  debit  my Account with the relevant monthly premium 
until further notice.
Ive also noted  that under  the same section on the application form, Mrs S had the option  of 
selecting whether  or not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Mrs S didnt select this product, 
so I think she would  have  known she had a choice  about taking out either  product. Overall,  I 
think its more likely  than not Mrs S would have understood  the PPI was optional. And I dont 
think she would have  selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs S chose to take out the PPI, so it 
Ref: DRN95688992looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs S has told us she would have received between three and six months  pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had some  savings  and 
could have relied on her husband to help with her store card repayments.
Having thought about what  Mrs S has said about  her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means she wouldnt have  found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs S would have received from her employer and would 
have paid out for longer.  The PPI also would have paid a benefit  if Mrs S was ever made 
redundant and would have enabled  her to use her savings for any other  financial 
responsibilities she may have had.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs S has said about  the fact that she could have  relied on her 
husband to help her with her repayments.  Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Mrs Ss husband  would want to help, his financial situation  could 
change and so this help couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs S could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568899