K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs P say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  them  PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover  arent  disputed. So I havent repeated  all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs P about  the commission  it received - so Santander doesnt  need to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. I say 
this because Santander has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps further advance 
application from the time.  And looking at this I can see that Mr and Mrs P were  presented  
with two boxes  to tick  Yes or No  and there is a tick in the Yes  box to take out PPI. 
If they didnt want  PPI they couldve  indicated  here by ticking the No box.
Ref: DRN93307382While Santander no longer has a copy of it, Mr and Mrs P were also required to complete 
a separate PPI application form to finalise  the setting up of the cover. And there  is a 
letter on file from Santander sent to Mr and Mrs P around the time of their advance  
application, which says Mr and Mrs P were asked  to complete this if they wanted to go 
ahead.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs P agreed to take out PPI and did so 
without undue pressure.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P say they didnt 
receive advice. And looking  at the available evidence and what happened in this case,  
Im not persuaded that Santander provided  advice. Ive not seen anything  to suggest that 
Santander did anything  more  than provide information about  the cover  as set out in the 
further advance  application and invite Mr and Mrs P to complete an application  if they 
wanted to go ahead.
So Santander didnt  have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did 
have to give Mr and Mrs P enough clear  and timely  information so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs P given 
their circumstances  for example they werent  affected by the significant exclusions on 
or limits to the cover  such as those  for existing medical conditions - or too dissimilar to 
what they reasonably  thought they were buying from the information they were given. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It 
also looks like it was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs P would  have still taken out PPI. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what they thought they were getting and I think  the policy  
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should  have  disclosed  the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93307383This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to do pay back any of the commission  Mr and Mrs P paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs P should  get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Santander has been 
working this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and 
Mrs Ps case  was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN93307384I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the commission. So it follows  that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs P unfairly. 
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs P back  any of the commission  they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or make  any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330738