K822xcomplaint
In summary,  Mr S has complained that Scottish Equitable  Plc (SE) trading as Aegon,  didnt  
reverse the change  to the target retirement age (TRA) he made online, in respect  of his 
pension; immediately after he told it he wanted  to cancel the change.  He goes onto say that 
by not stopping the investment fund switch that was implemented as a result of the change  
in retirement date, he has lost out financially.
background 
In April 2019 Mr S reviewed his retirement  date options using SEs website. It allowed him to 
explore making  changes  to his pension plan in respect of the retirement date, monthly 
contributions and investment strategy. 
Mr S has said he thought he made changes on the modelling screen of the website for 
illustrative purposes. But he ended up actioning a change to the TRA on his pension.  He 
said he tried to change  the TRA again to look at another retirement date for illustrative  
purposes. He went onto say that the system wouldnt allow him to do that as there was a 
change pending,  and he was directed to contact SE. It was then that he realised there would 
be a change to his investment funds.
Mr S contacted SE the same day to explain  what had happened,  and that he had changed 
the TRA to get an indication.  In the phone call transcript provided by SE, it says Mr S wanted 
to change the TRA back, but the system  wouldnt let him. He didnt realise  he was going  to 
change funds and didnt want to make a fund switch. SEs representative told Mr S that it 
couldnt do anything  about that when the system had actioned something.
Mr S raised his concerns with SE. In its response  it said he had changed his SRA to 58. This 
decreased the period of time that he was away from retirement, and his investments were 
altered accordingly.  
It went onto explain the messages  its target  pension modeller gave, when a change  was 
made to the TRA. It said the message advised  that investments may be affected by the 
change, and request confirmation that the policyholder would like to proceed  with the 
submission. It went on to say that Mr S request to reverse  the TRA to the original age on the 
account, couldnt be reversed until the switch had been completed.  
It apologised  that Mr S wasnt told of the correct TRA held on the account prior to the change 
and for any confusion caused. It didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had processed his 
instructions at the earliest possible opportunity. 
Mr S concerns were  looked into by one of our investigators.  He explained why he didnt 
think SE had done anything wrong. Mr S didnt agree so the case has been passed  to me for 
review.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 May 2021,  explaining why I was upholding Mr S 
complaint. Mr S replied  and accepted  my provisional  decision.  Our investigator chased SE 
for a response to my provisional decision,  but none  was received. 
Ref: DRN91725102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As SE and Mr S havent made any further  submissions, I see no reason to change my 
opinion on this case that I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive set out my reasoning  
again below. 
It seems  to me from the information provided, that Mr S was exploring the impact of a 
different TRA when he used the My Target  modeller tool on SEs website. 
SE has provided screenshots and messages from its website  that it says would have been  
presented to Mr S. The second tab is headed, Explore making changes. I can understand 
from the way this is phrased, that Mr S may have interpreted this as enabling  him to 
investigate making  changes,  rather than making actual changes.  And I think  this is 
supported by the action he took in phoning SE to cancel  the change, so soon after having 
completed the screens on the modeller tool. 
The bottom of the screen required Mr S to click on an action now button.  SE has said that 
Mr S would have received  a confirmation  message that the changes had been passed  into 
his Target Plan account, and another two messages asking him to confirm  the account  
changes. 
SE has also said that in addition to the screens and messages, there was a navigation  guide  
available which outlined how changes would  be updated  into Mr S target plan.  From what  
SE has told us, I think it was optional to use the guide. As a result, Mr S wouldnt necessarily 
have seen the information on that guide,  as it doesnt appear, he had to click on the guide  in 
order to use the modeller tool. 
But, even  if Mr S had seen the guide and the screens that SE has provided screenshots for, 
Im not persuaded he would have necessarily  understood the implications of completing and 
actioning the changes.  This is because I cant see that this information  would have explained  
to him, that investment  changes  would  have resulted from him exploring and actioning 
changing his TRA. 
SE said when it provided us with its file that:
In addition  to the notifications that are given after a change is submitted through  the 
myTarget modeller, members are also presented with a pop up message when they select  to 
change TRA. This message advises you that investments may be effected by the change 
and request confirmation that they would like to proceed with the submission.
However, the screenshots and messages that SE has provided  to our service  dont show  
such a message or support  that statement. So, I cant safely conclude based on the 
evidence SE has provided, that Mr S would necessarily have been aware that investment
changes might be effected as a result of him exploring changing the TRA. So, in summary, I 
dont think that SE communicated with Mr S in this case, in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Ref: DRN91725103But even if SE was able to demonstrate that it made Mr S aware of the implications of 
changing the TRA on the modelling tool and provided him with clear  information, I still dont 
think it treated him fairly in this case.  
I say this because  its apparent  that Mr S realised very quickly  after making the request on 
the modelling tool, that he had made a mistake. SE has said that the online request was 
made after 1 pm. The transcript that it has provided,  shows that one of its representatives 
spoke to Mr S at 2.25 pm the same day. His request to cancel the changes  was made 
literally just over an hour at the most, from when the initial online request was made. Im 
satisfied from this timeline, that Mr S acted promptly to try and cancel the change he says he 
had inadvertently made. 
SEs response to this was that although Mr S contacted it to cancel the requested  change, it 
was too late as it was processed on its underlying database. And it also said there was no 
option to stop or remove the transaction.  But its also said that once  a switch had been 
initiated it took 3 days  to fully process  before any further changes could be made. 
It seems  to me that the process SE applied to Mr S cancelation request was inflexible, and 
unfair in the way it impacted on him. I say this because I find it difficult to understand how 
having contacted SE so soon after having  made the online change,  that SE wasnt able to 
stop or reverse a change  that in its own words,  would take 3 working days to fully (my 
emphasis) process.  
I think given what Ive said above and the particular circumstances  of this case, SEs 
process got in the way of it actioning  Mr S request to cancel the change to the TRA. Having 
contacted SE so quickly  after inadvertently initiating a process that would take 3 working 
days to fully complete,  I cant see how it was treating Mr S fairly or reasonably by not 
cancelling his request. It seems to me there  was time to stop the change request and it was 
SEs automated process in relation to the change that Mr S had inadvertently made,  that 
stopped this from happening.
And I think if its automated system couldnt accommodate a cancelation request, then it 
should have taken steps to reconstruct Mr S account so that it was in the position that it 
would have been in if the original online request hadnt been  made.  It appears  to me that in 
this case, SEs process got in the way of it doing what  was fair for Mr S. 
Putting things  right
In assessing what is fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mr S as close  to the position he 
would be in now if SE had cancelled his TRA request  on the day he contacted  it, and not 
processed the request and made the subsequent fund switches.
I think that SE should do this by correcting Mr S pension account. It should  correct the fund 
and unit allocations on its systems, so that his pension is the same as it would have been if 
the TRA request  had not been  processed, and the consequent fund switches hadnt  been 
made.
Ref: DRN91725104my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Mr Ss complaint about 
Scottish Equitable  Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9172510