K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the transfer of his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a 
Section 32 pension policy with Guardian Assurance  Limited in 1988.  He says he was 
advised to do this by a Guardian adviser who told him he would get more money by doing 
this. He believes the Guardian pension was mis-sold and provides poor benefits.  Mr S says 
that it would  have been better to have  remained  with his OPS.
 
background
Guardian did not uphold Mr Ss complaint.  It said that there was no record  of any advice he 
had been given. It said he had been provided  with documents  setting out what  benefits  he 
might receive later but this wasnt guaranteed. It said that bonus returns had been lower  
since the transfer was made and that, together with the fact that Mr S had taken his pension  
benefits at age 50, rather than the intended age of 65, meant that the benefits  he received 
were a lot less than projected in 1988.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  He did 
not uphold the complaint. He set out that the Guardian pension  was arranged before the 
Financial Services Act 1986 came  into effect.  That meant that the requirements brought in 
by the Act, such as making sure the recommendation was suitable for Mr S or recording  
recommendations, were  not applicable. He said that Mr S was 37 at the time of the transfer  
and so he had a significant  amount of time to build  up further  pension  benefits. He felt that 
the illustration indicated that there  was a reasonable prospect that Mr S would improve his 
pension benefits  by transferring at the time.  The fact that investment returns had been  lower 
since the transfer and that Mr S had taken  his benefits 15 years  early had significantly 
affected what he received. He did not believe the transfer inappropriate or the Guardian  plan 
mis-sold. 
Mr S did not agree  with the assessment.  He said that he had been  advised to transfer his 
pension in 1988. And the OPS had only sent half the pension  contributions  (his 
contributions) to Guardian and not his employers contributions.  He said he had been called 
in 2000 and asked if he wanted his pension. He did not know if he took his benefits at this 
time that he wouldnt get anything later. He said he didnt read the documents he was sent at 
the time and would have expected advice about  the consequences of taking his benefits at 
this time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S had about 14 years  service in a final salary  OPS. He transferred  the value of these  
benefits to Guardian  in 1988. He took the benefits  from his Guardian pension  in 2000 at age 
50.
It is important  to take into account  that the arrangement of the transfer and any advice Mr S 
was given occurred  before  the Financial Services Act (1986)  came  into effect in 1988.  This 
means that subsequent regulatory requirements, such as giving best advice and suitable 
advice, and documenting any advice  given, did not apply. Instead the adviser would be 
under a general common law duty to advise with reasonable care and skill. 
Ref: DRN91214972Probably because  of the arrangement of the transfer pre-dating  the Act, there  is little in the 
way of documentation from the time of the transfer. There is a copy  of a proposal form which 
Mr S completed to enable  the transfer  and an illustration  of the possible benefits he could 
receive in future. However there  is no recommendation report or letter  setting out any advice 
that may have been given or any fact finding  about  Mr Ss situation   which would  be 
required in a more  recent  sale.  
It is therefore not clear  what advice  Mr S received or the nature of it. 
Based on what evidence is available it is not clear that the transfer was inappropriate or it 
would have been inappropriate to recommend it. The illustration set out what benefits  were 
available assuming a certain  level of return and that there was a guaranteed level of income 
at age 65. It would  not be unreasonable at the time to assume that the benefits  could be 
more than those  available  from Mr Ss OPS.  Unfortunately investment returns  or bonuses 
have not been as expected and the effect of that and the fact that Mr S took his benefits 
much earlier that the intended age of 65, has meant  that the benefits are a lot less than 
projected. As the notes  to the illustration  set out, the returns  were not guaranteed (especially 
at age 50) and therefore the fact that benefits have  been lower than hoped  for does not 
mean the policy was mis-sold.
So I have  not seen sufficient evidence that Mr S was badly advised to transfer based on the 
situation as applied in 1988.
Mr S says only half his contributions were sent to Guardian. I think  that unlikely. Final  salary 
benefits are based  generally on the number  of years service and salary (not a fund built up 
of contributions).  Members of such schemes  are not necessarily asked to contribute  but 
where they are the money paid is simply what an employer requires for participation of the 
scheme. There is not therefore a pot of money from the employee and separate  pot from 
the employer.  The employee simply has an entitlement to a given  pension  based on number 
of years service and salary. Those  total benefits can be converted into a cash value  which 
was what was done when Mr S transferred.  There is one final salary  equivalent  value  it is 
not a case of contributions being transferred, it is case  of a final salary entitlement  being  
converted into one value.  
So I think it is very unlikely that contributions were left at Mr Ss employer or were  lost. 
However if Mr S is of the view that not all his benefits were transferred then he should 
consider asking his previous employer about  this. 
Mr S is also concerned about what happened in 2000 when he took his benefits. He says he 
was called about this and it was not explained  to him what  taking benefits at this age meant.  
I have not seen any evidence that Mr S received advice at this point from Guardian or it 
proactively contacted him about taking his pension at age 50. In fact the evidence  tends to 
indicate that Mr S contacted Guardian  to ask about  taking  his pension. 
There is a letter from Guardian  to Mr S dated 29 September 2000 that thanks him for your 
recent enquiry. The letter then set out that it enclosed retirement quotations.  It discussed  
that there  were four main  options at retirement. However it made  no recommendations and 
asked that if Mr S wanted to proceed  he should forward the required items  to enable the 
benefits to be taken. It also said that:
We understand that this is a very important decision for you to make  and we strongly
Ref: DRN91214973recommend that you seek advice  from an Independent Financial Adviser. 
This does  not indicate that Guardian was providing  tailored advice to Mr S. It indicates it was 
responding to a query about  taking pension benefits. Because Guardian was not providing 
such advice it did have  to set out all the ramifications of taking benefits  at age 50. It strongly  
recommended Mr S take advice from a financial adviser as to what  decision to make (where  
Mr S could be advised about  the ramifications). 
Consequently I do not believe there is evidence that Guardian acted  incorrectly  in 2000.  The 
evidence is that it responded to a query about taking  benefits at age 50 and then paid the 
benefits when  instructed  by Mr S. Mr S has said he needed  the money in 2000  and this is 
why he took benefits. 
In summary  I do not believe that Guardian acted  inappropriately  in carrying  out the original 
transfer or inappropriately when Mr S took benefits.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2018.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9121497