K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss T have  complained about  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limiteds  handling of 
their claim under  their home insurance  policy after they suffered  an escape of water at their 
house.
background
In May 2017, Mr M and Miss T found water damage  to their kitchen ceiling and kitchen floor.  
They made a claim under  their policy. Admiral assessed the damage and concluded it had 
been caused by a failure in the shower seals and a problem with a roof tile. Admiral declined  
the claim on the grounds that the damage had been gradually occurring. Mr M and Miss T 
say they arranged for the identified problems to be fixed.
In June 2018, Mr M and Miss T found  that there was still a problem with an escape of water. 
They contacted Admiral which sent a surveyor. The surveyor confirmed that there was a leak 
from the soil stack. Admiral accepted the claim.
Admiral arranged for repair work to be carried out and agreed to cover  the cost of alternative 
accommodation (AA) for Mr M and Miss T for the duration of the work. Unfortunately, after 
the repair work had started,  it was discovered the damage was more  extensive than first 
thought. This meant the repair work would take longer. Admiral agreed to extend the period 
of AA accordingly.
Mr M and Miss T became unhappy with various aspects of Admirals claim handling. They 
complained about the following matters: 
1.Admirals surveyor  had initially offered to settle  the claim with a cash payment  of £2,000  
which they considered was a disgracefully low offer designed  to exploit their naivety.
2.Admiral failed to register their complaint when it was originally made.
3.Admiral had incorrectly declined  their original claim  in 2017.
4.The surveyor did not have the correct tools or moisture  reading equipment.
5.There was a lack of communication from Admiral and its contractors, and calls were not 
returned even  after they had been  promised.
6.The disturbance  allowance  was not paid correctly and Admiral didnt handle  the AA 
adequately.
7.There were  delays.
8.The poor handling led indirectly  to the death  of their family  pet.
In October  2018, Admiral  issued its final response  letter to the complaint. It accepted it had 
been at fault in respect of all the points except the final one. It offered £500 compensation.
Mr M and Miss T were  unhappy at Admirals response. They referred  their complaint to us. 
They additionally  raised a complaint about an alleged data protection  breach by Admiral.  
Ref: DRN92454992They said that as well as receiving a greater level of compensation, they wanted  the 
surveyor to be disciplined  and both he and the staff member responsible for the alleged data 
protection breach to be re-trained.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. While  she accepted 
that Admiral had made various mistakes, she was satisfied that its offer of compensation 
was fair. She didnt  think it was at fault in respect of the alleged  data protection breach. 
Mr M and Miss T didnt  accept the investigators  findings. They reiterated  that the initial cash  
settlement offer was far too low bearing  in mind that the claim costs  now exceeded £25,000. 
They also reiterated  that Admiral had been  wrong  to decline the claim in 2017 and said the 
plumber who theyd  employed to fix the leak in 2018 said he was sure this had been the 
source of the problem  in 2017.  They also provided  further details of how they thought 
Admiral and its contractors had failed to communicate  properly  and how this had led to 
delays in the progress of the claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Let me first of all clarify that this decision relates  to Admirals handling of the claim up until it 
issued its final response letter  in October  2018.  I note that Mr M and Miss T have since 
made further complaints to Admiral,  including about the delay in concluding the repairs. 
Admiral has issued further final response letters  to those complaints. I am not considering 
those subsequent events in this decision. If Mr M and Miss T are unhappy about the 
responses they have  received from Admiral, they should make  a new complaint  to us.
I shall deal separately  with each complaint point raised by Mr M and Miss T.
1.Admirals surveyor  had initially offered to settle  the claim with a cash payment  of £2,000  
which they considered was a disgracefully low offer designed  to exploit their naivety
Admirals file indicates that on 11 June  2018 the surveyor made a cash  settlement offer of 
£2,247. Although he didnt  make this clear  to Mr and Miss T, the surveyor had deducted the 
policy excess of £600, so the cash settlement was really based on an estimated repair cost 
of £2,847. Mr M and Miss T have compared this to the eventual total claim costs of over 
£25,000 but I dont think this is a fair comparison. The surveyor  was basing his offer on the 
understood level of damage;  it was only later that it became clear  more extensive repair 
work would be necessary  which  meant  the repair cost would  increase.  I can see that on 
24 July 2018,  Admirals contractor was still advising that the repair cost would be under 
£4,000. I therefore  dont  believe that Admirals surveyor  was seeking to exploit Mr M and 
Miss Ts naivety through his cash settlement offer. However, Admiral  acknowledged that the 
surveyor should have  made clear  that the cash settlement offer was net of the policy  excess.
Ref: DRN924549932.Admiral failed to register their complaint when it was originally made
 
Admiral accepted that a phone call on 22 June 2018 in which Mr M expressed dissatisfaction  
should have been registered  as a formal complaint. As it was, Admiral  didnt register the 
complaint until about one month later.
3. Admiral had incorrectly declined  their original claim in 2017
Admirals contractor carried out tests in 2017  which led it to believe the problem was the 
faulty shower seals and the roof tile. I have read the contractors report  from that time and 
consider it was reasonable for the contractor  to have drawn that conclusion. Based on this, 
I think it was reasonable  for Admiral to have decided at that time to decline the claim.  When 
Mr M and Miss T reported ongoing issues in 2018, Admiral initially  considered that the soil 
stack leak was a new problem. Mr M and Miss T say their plumber insisted  the soil stack  had 
been the problem all along  but I have seen no evidence from the plumber to this effect. 
Nonetheless, on reviewing the claim, Admiral conceded that it was possible it had missed  
the soil stack leak in 2017 and that, partly due to the lack of detail provided by the surveyors  
report in 2018,  it would  be very difficult  for it to prove otherwise.  In view of this, it agreed to 
accept the claim as if the soil stack  leak had been present at the time of the earlier claim. 
I think this was a fair position for Admiral to take.    
4.The surveyor did not have the correct tools or moisture  reading equipment
As noted above,  Admiral conceded that the surveyors report  lacked detail.
5.There was a lack of communication from Admiral and its contractors, and calls were not 
returned even  after they had been  promised
Admiral accepted that its contractors had failed to keep  Mr M and Miss T adequately 
informed of what was happening. Mr M and Miss T have given numerous examples  of this, 
including failures  to call them  back as promised. I consider that this would have been very 
frustrating for Mr M and Miss T.
6.The disturbance  allowance  was not paid correctly and Admiral didnt handle  the AA 
adequately
Im satisfied that Admiral  paid a fair disturbance  allowance of £10 a day each to Mr M and 
Miss T while  they were  in hotel accommodation.  It also agreed to cover  reasonable 
expenses incurred such as parking  costs  and travel fares,  though there was a delay of a few 
days before  it agreed to cover these costs  which  may have caused  some inconvenience to 
Mr M and Miss T. With respect  to AA, I consider that Admiral generally  did as much as could 
reasonably be expected  to support Mr M and Miss T. There were issues  over their pet dog 
but I note that Miss T had told Admirals  agent that the dog should  be able to stay with family 
members and so it wasnt essential  that they had to stay in pet-friendly accommodation. It 
was unfortunate  that Mr M and Miss T had to move between different accommodations from 
time to time but this was mainly due to the fact that the extent of the repairs required, and 
hence the necessary duration  of the AA, changed  as further damage was uncovered. I note 
that at one point,  Admiral  even agreed  to pay for AA for a week while  Mr M and Miss T were  
on holiday  but so that their pet dog could  remain  at the property under the supervision of a 
friend. I consider this was very reasonable on the part of Admiral.
Ref: DRN924549947.There were  delays.
Admiral has conceded  there were  delays, mainly because of the confusion  among its 
contractors over whether  or not this was a continuation  of the 2017 claim and hence what 
damage was covered  under the policy. I consider that Mr M and Miss T would have been 
caused inconvenience by these delays.  Once  the repair work had started, further  damage  
was uncovered in the joists which Admiral agreed  to cover under the policy.  This meant  the 
repair work couldnt be concluded  in the timescale which was originally envisaged but I dont 
think that Admiral should be held to blame  for issues which couldnt reasonably  be foreseen. 
Mr M and Miss T have  also raised concerns about  delays since  October 2018  but, as I 
explained earlier, I am not considering  those  issues  in this decision.
8.The poor handling led indirectly  to the death  of their family  pet.
Mr M and Miss Ts pet dog sadly passed  away in September  2018 and they considered  this 
was due in part to the stress caused  to it by the poor handling of the claim, particularly the 
arrangement of the AA. I sympathise with Mr M and Miss T over the loss of their pet. 
However, I have no reasonable grounds  for concluding that this was linked to Admirals 
handling of the claim.
9.Alleged data protection breach
Mr M and Miss T have  drawn attention to a telephone call in which  they say Admirals  
representative didnt  go through  proper identity checks. It seems that the call in question  was 
when Mr M and Miss T were on holiday abroad. Admirals  representative  had contacted 
them and, after going through  appropriate  checks, started to discuss  their complaint. The call 
connection was lost midway through the conversation and so the representative  called back. 
Mr M answered the phone  and immediately called the representative by her first name  so 
the call continued  as if no break  had occurred. Ive no reason to conclude  that Mr M and 
Miss T have suffered any disadvantage  as a result of the representatives  failure to go 
through the identity checks again.
Overall, it is clear that there were certain failings by Admiral and its contractors,  particularly 
in terms of communication. However, Admiral  has offered £500 compensation and Im 
satisfied that this is fair. It is in line with what I would have likely awarded if Admiral hadnt  
made this offer.  I appreciate that Mr M and Miss T have been through a difficult  and 
frustrating time but I have  to distinguish between the trouble and upset  caused  by the 
incident giving rise to the claim and that caused  by Admirals poor handling. I consider that 
Admirals offer in respect of the latter is fair and I dont  require  it to pay anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN92454995Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9245499