K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mr H says 
Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  didnt  give him enough information about  the commission  it 
received from selling him this type of cover.
Im aware that Mr H had two such policies which were very similar  in nature. The one Im 
dealing with in this decision is about the MPPI  sold in 1999. For the other  MPPI  policy (sold 
in 2000) my understanding is that YBS is writing to Mr H in an attempt to resolve  the matter.
 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and has told Mr H that they think  it shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr H disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Im afraid Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
This is a relatively straightforward matter. It seems  Mr H was a long-standing YBS mortgage 
customer and hes not alleged he was mis-sold the cover,  hes only complaining about the 
commission. The two policies Ive mentioned  above  ran consecutively. 
The first policy was taken  out in February 1999 after Mr H completed  and signed  an MPPI 
application form for an existing mortgage.  This MPPI policy was closed in May 2000  upon 
the redemption  of that mortgage. The second  policy was then set up in May 2000 when Mr H 
took out a new mortgage  and it ran for quite few years.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued guidance to lenders recently, who 
provided mortgages between certain  dates. The rules cover  mortgages where the lender  
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI  
premium). And where this occurred the FCA has said lenders should pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium.
So Ive looked  carefully at the mortgages  Mr H had with YBS. Ive also asked  to see 
computerised screen prints and Ive looked at when  his mortgages began and ended. Im 
satisfied Im clear about the dates and I dont  think the 1999 MPPI sale is within  the scope of 
the FCA guidance. This is because the mortgage it was attached to ceased  in May 2000  and 
isnt caught by the FCA guidance. Put another way, YBS doesnt  need to pay Mr H any 
money back for the commission  it may or may not have received from the first sale. 
For the second mortgage  YBS probably  does need to apply the FCA guidance.  And 
although Im not dealing  with that issue here, this is what YBS has told us its writing to Mr H 
about now.
Mr H thinks because he was a YBS mortgage  customer for many  years  and he held MPPI 
for a while  then this should be treated as him having continuous MPPI cover.
Ref: DRN97963012I understand the point hes making but Im afraid I dont agree. The records show he 
redeemed his mortgage in May 2000 and immediately took out another  one. Mr H agrees 
with this. There were very slight differences  in the MPPI costs and they were two separate 
policies, and for that matter, mortgages.  
Im therefore  not upholding Mr Hs complaint in relation to this first policy. Its my 
understanding hes received information  about  what his options are with regards to the 2000  
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  And I dont require  Yorkshire Building Society to compensate 
Mr H for the 1999 MPPI sale.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796301