K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with errors made by Santander UK Plc when applying  interest  
rate charges  to their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage in November  2005 with Alliance & Leicester  now part of 
Santander (Ill refer to Santander throughout this decision). It was a three year fixed  rate 
mortgage that reverted to the Bank of England base rate plus 0.75% at the end of the three  
year period.  They said they received  a letter in December  2008 notifying them they would be 
put on a rate of 3.75% - a higher rate than they were expecting. They say they had to 
contact Santander  in order to be put on the correct rate of interest.
The second  error occurred at the end of the mortgage in October  2017.  Mrs A called 
Santander to cancel their direct debit after she had made what she believed  to be the final 
payment to clear the mortgage. She was surprised  to be told that there was an amount  of 
interest of just over £50 outstanding. Santander  looked into this and found that a mistake 
had been made in September  2016 that led to interest still being  outstanding. It wrote off the 
outstanding amount meaning they had no further  payments  to make,  and their mortgage 
account was closed. It also offered her £100  as a gesture  of goodwill for the error and its 
delay in dealing  with the matter.
Mr and Mrs A were  still unhappy so brought their complaint to this service.  They  feel that the 
amount of compensation is not acceptable. They say they have  lost trust in Santander 
because they discovered the two errors, not the bank. They are unhappy that they were told 
that if Mrs A hadnt contacted Santander to cancel the direct  debit  it would have taken a full 
monthly payment  on the next payment due date. They also complain that in its Final 
Response Letter, Santander says that the rate reduction may not have been calculated 
correctly. Mr and Mrs A say this leaves them in doubt  that Santanders calculations are 
correct  because  Santander has used these  words it leaves  them wondering if their 
complaint has been properly  resolved.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He felt that Santander 
didnt need to do any more than what it had already  done  it had admitted its mistakes, 
cleared the outstanding balance, and paid Mr and Mrs A compensation of £100.
The case  has been passed to me for a final decision  because Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the 
investigators view.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
explain why below.
Mr and Mrs A complain  that they lost trust in Santander because  it made  two errors: the first 
when applying the new rate of interest at the end of the original fixed  term period; and the 
second when  it calculated the final amount due at the end of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN93453932They were  concerned that they had to bring these two errors to Santanders attention during 
the life of the mortgage. They say that they cant be sure that no other mistakes have been  
made and want compensation as they now have difficulty trusting Santander.
They were  also frustrated  with the number of calls they had to make to resolve the issues.
Santander hasnt  given its consent to me looking at the first part of the complaint  the 
interest rate change  in 2008.  This is because it says it was made  too late.
If a business doesnt  consent, I cant consider a complaint which isnt made within  six years  
of the event complained of, or if later, within three  years of when  the complainant became 
aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, of cause for complaint. This is due to 
DISP Rule 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, available  online.
This part of Mr and Mrs As complaint relates to the interest rate change in 2008.  In order to 
meet the six year part of the rules,  they needed to have complained by 2014  at the latest.  
They say they complained  at the time but Santander has no acknowledgement or other  
record of a complaint  being made  at that time, or within  the six year part of the rules.
I asked Mr and Mrs A if they could provide any evidence that they had raised a complaint 
with Santander  in 2008 or early 2009.  They provided  me with a copy  of a letter  from 
Santander they received in January 2009  in response to a recent conversation.  Although  
the letter is about there being no collar on their mortgage, it sufficiently demonstrates to me 
that a complaint (or expression of dissatisfaction) was made at the time. And because a final 
response letter wasnt issued by Santander,  Im going to consider this part of the complaint 
as made  in time. Both Mr and Mrs A and Santander  have accepted this.
Letters describing the rate change were sent to Mr and Mrs A in December 2008 and 
January 2009.  The first advised of an increase in the mortgage interest rate to 3.75% from 
January 2009,  followed  by a letter informing of a new rate of 2.75% from January 2009. Mr 
and Mrs A believe that the second  letter was only issued because Mrs A challenged the 
interest rate in the initial  letter.
Santander disputes that the wrong mortgage  rate was applied  when the interest rate 
changed in 2008. It confirms that Mr and Mrs A were  told the higher rate was being  applied 
to their account. It also confirms that another letter was sent shortly after the first, informing 
Mr and Mrs A of a lower interest rate, following a change in the Bank  of England  base rate. 
This is in line with the terms of the mortgage  offer  these explain that if the base rate 
changes then the interest rate applied  to their account will change  on the first day of the 
following month.
I have checked  the Bank of England base rate database and can see that the base rate did 
change on 4 December  2008. Having confirmed the change in base rate, I am satisfied it 
was the change of base  rate that generated the second letter advising the lower  interest  
rate, and not the challenge  from Mr and Mrs A. So Santander hadnt  made  an error.
The second  part of Mr and Mrs As complaint relates to a mistake in the payment 
recalculation following  a rate change in 2016.  Its not in dispute that Santander made a 
mistake when recalculating the payments due following the base rate change.  Santander 
has provided me with its explanation of how this error occurred, and Ive seen its redress  
statement showing the correct calculation. I accept this calculation to be correct.
Ref: DRN93453933I accept that if Mr and Mrs A hadnt contacted  Santander they would have had to deal with 
any consequences arising from a full monthly payment being unexpectedly withdrawn from 
their account   and then waiting for the overpayment to be repaid to them. But this didnt 
actually happen.  And I note that Santander  rectified  this matter quickly, and quickly wrote off 
the outstanding balance   before  it had completed its investigation.
When something has gone wrong, as it has here,  what I need  to decide is whether Mr and 
Mrs A have suffered  a financial loss as a result  of that error. Santander acknowledged its 
mistake and it has put that matter right. So the only thing left for me to consider is the impact 
this error  had on Mr and Mrs A. 
They say they have lost trust in Santander. And they say they have no confidence that 
Santanders calculation  of the amount owed is correct. And in their complaint, they say they 
have done some research and found  where mortgage customers  have been mistreated and 
received big amounts of compensation. I cant comment on how a customer  feels  about  
their bank, or their opinion  of its practices. I can look to see if the bank got anything  wrong, 
and if it did, I can make a finding that puts things  right.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A had to make a number of calls to resolve  their issues,  and 
that they found this frustrating. But, I think the £100 compensation awarded by Santander  for 
the time and trouble Mr and Mrs A had in relation to the final mortgage repayment  is fair and 
reasonable. I know Mr and Mrs A think they should  receive more, but the amount awarded 
by Santander  is in line with what I would have  awarded.
My role isnt to punish businesses, but to ensure consumers  are put back  into the position  
that they shouldve been in all along if the error  hadnt happened.  Santander  did this, after 
Mr and Mrs A brought this mistake to its attention.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Gordon Ramsay 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9345393