K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that MYJAR  Limited  provided  him with loans he couldnt  afford. He is also 
unhappy that the lender  took time in dealing with his complaint which  caused  him stress..
background 
Mr P took out four short  term loans with MYJAR.  Loan 1 was cancelled on the same  day it 
was taken out. Loan 2 was repayable by six monthly  instalments. Loans 3 and 4 were 
repayable by 12 monthly instalments. Loan  4 hasnt been repaid. Mr Ps loan history is as 
follows:-
Loan number 
Date of 
LoanLoan amount Repayment date
1. 6/10/2018 £275 6/10/2018
2. 6/10/2018 £375 9/10/2018
3. 9/10/2018 £725 16/10/2018
4. 16/10/2018 £750 Unpaid
MYJAR said that it had conducted appropriate and proportionate affordability checks. It 
asked Mr P for his income and regular expenditure (housing costs, other credit commitments  
and any other expenditure) and conducted  a credit check. It also took into account a 
minimum amount for household expenditure and Mr Ps borrowing from other lenders. 
The adjudicator didnt initially uphold the complaint. But whilst  the complaint was waiting for 
an ombudsmans decision, it was found that additional information  needed  to be taken into 
account. The adjudicator then issued  a second view and recommended  that the complaint 
about Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld. She said that by Loan 3 proportionate checks  would 
have shown that Mr P was having problems managing  his money. 
MYJAR responded  to say that it agreed with the adjudicators view.
But Mr P wanted an ombudsman to review  the complaint in view of the time hed invested in 
it. He said that MYJARs final response  letter had inaccuracies in it and insinuated that an 
offer was going  to be made.  This response caused  further stress and hed then had to spend  
further time chasing  this. 
The adjudicator read Mr Ps complaint  file but didnt recommend that MYJAR should 
compensate Mr P for distress and inconvenience. She said that the issue Mr P had raised 
wasnt a regulated activity  so she wouldnt  be able to investigate it. 
Mr P said that the time taken and the stress caused by MYJARs complaint  handling  needed 
to be investigated  and addressed properly. It had taken much effort and time to get the 
complaint resolved
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN92354482As MYJAR  has agreed to settle Loans  3 and 4 in line with the adjudicators 
recommendations, I wont investigate these loans  below  but will include them in my award. I 
also dont propose  to investigate Loan  1 as this was cancelled  on the day it was taken out. 
But I shall investigate Loan  2 below.
For all of Mr Ps loans  the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN92354483MYJAR has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr P. I note from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Mr Ps income as well as details about his housing  costs, other 
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. MYJAR said that it made adjustments to 
these figures using its own internal affordability  calculations. 
I also note that MYJAR carried out credit checks and Ive seen a summary of its credit  
checks which I will refer to below.
Weve not received a full credit report from Mr P so Im not aware of anything on that which 
might have caused MYJAR  additional  concerns. 
Ive thought about whether MYJARs  checks were proportionate for Loan 2. As the first loan 
was cancelled, I consider  that MYJAR could  have treated Loan 2 as Mr Ps first loan with it. I 
note that Mr P needed to make six monthly  repayments of varying amounts up to £115.56 to 
repay it. I can see that the repayments  were relatively  modest compared to the income  of 
£1,875 Mr P declared  to MYJAR.   
I note that MYJARs  credit check showed Mr P had opened five new accounts  in the 
previous three months and that his unsecured loan balances were  estimated to be £3,581.  
The balance on two of the accounts had increased  in the previous  three  months. I can see 
that Mr Ps other borrowing might  have suggested  to MYJAR that his finances were  under 
pressure. But I dont  think the repayment amounts on Loan  2 were so large  that its obvious 
they wouldve  caused Mr P financial difficulty.
On balance, I think that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loan  2 were 
proportionate. Given Mr Ps repayment  amounts  for Loan 2, what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and that this was in effect  his first loan with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR  to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr P provided or the information  
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr P.
Ive also considered Mr Ps complaint about  MYJARs complaint handling. I can see that 
MYJAR made  an error  in its final response  letter  and that Mr P sent eleven  chasing emails 
over around 20 days to clarify what MYJAR meant to say. I note that MYJAR has apologised  
for its error and provided clarification. I also appreciate Mr Ps frustration at the time taken by 
MYJAR to resolve the complaint and can understand  that he was caused stress  by it. But as 
the adjudicator  explained  to Mr P, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So I shant be 
making any findings or ordering  compensation to be paid in relation to any failings by 
MYJAR in the way in which the complaint has been handled. If Mr P wishes to take his 
concerns about  MYJARs complaint handling  procedures further, he can raise these with the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
I can see that there is a balance outstanding  on Loan 4 and understand that Mr P is 
experiencing financial difficulties. So I would remind MYJAR of its responsibility  to treat Mr P 
in a positive and sympathetic manner about the amounts he should repay.
 
Ref: DRN92354484my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 3 and pay interest of 8% simple 
a year on such refunded  interest and charges from the date they were  paid to the 
date of settlement*;
2.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loan 4 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement*;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 and 
pay any balance to Mr P; and
5.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loans  3 and 4 from Mr Ps credit file; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9235448