K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr 
and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  remember  this. 
BoS recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them and based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time I think  
that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Indeed,  Mr B was able to 
make a substantial claim under the policy when he became too ill to work with medical  
conditions that existed before the sale of the PPI. Mr B didnt have any sick pay 
entitlement and Mrs B wouldve  had some sick pay, but the policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and for up to two years at a time.  Its likely that Mrs B wouldve been  
entitled to a redundancy package too, but, again,  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to two 
years at a time if she was made  redundant, leaving any redundancy pay to cover  other  
uninsured expenses.  Mr B didnt have any redundancy  pay entitlement, so he had a need  
for the cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  (and was) useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. I also havent seen  anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said but these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs B  paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some  of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs B now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN97714052my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9771405