K820x#14complaint
Mr A1 and his father Mr A2 complain  about  the level of service provided  by Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc (M&S) when it arranged  their motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr A1 and Mr A2 took out a policy through M&S online and Mr A2 completed  the purchase  in 
a telephone call. M&S  said Mr A2 said in the online application that he was the cars 
registered keeper  and Mr A1 was born in 1980. M&S said Mr A2 confirmed in the telephone 
call that the information hed provided online hadnt  changed. It then sent this information to 
the insurer. The insurer asked for the V5 registration document to validate the policy. M&S 
passed this on. This had Mr A1 as the cars  registered keeper. 
A claim  was made and Mr A1 was told that the insurer wouldnt have provided cover  if it had 
known he was the cars registered keeper. The policy was cancelled from the start (voided) 
and the claim declined. Mr A2 thought  M&S knew that Mr A1 was the cars registered 
keeper. He provided a letter he said showed this. And he thought M&S had sent the wrong  
information to the insurer.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mr A2 
had completed the online  form saying that he was the cars registered  keeper. He thought 
this had been confirmed when he purchased the policy.  M&S then sent out the policy  
documents which had Mr A2 as the cars  registered  keeper and Mr A1 born in 1980. The 
letter said the policy could  be void if details  were incorrect. But he didnt think  Mr A2 had 
corrected these errors. He thought M&S hadnt  been  told that Mr A1 was the cars registered  
keeper until after the claim was made.  He didnt  think it should have noted this from the V5 it 
passed to the insurer.  
Mr A1 replied that M&S said one minute that hed purchased the policy online and then over 
the phone. He asked  for the complaint to be reviewed. So its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the insurers decision to void the policy and decline the claim has had 
a great  impact on Mr A1s finances and health.  I cant  consider that decision here as thats  a 
separate business to M&S.  But I can look at M&Ss  actions in arranging and administering 
the policy. 
I think M&S  reasonably thought Mr A2 took out the policy online and then completed the 
purchase in a telephone  call to M&S.  Mr A1 stated this in his complaint letter to us and Ive 
heard the recording  of the call with M&S which followed the online application. The caller  
identified himself as Mr A2 and gave his date of birth and went  on to complete the purchase.  
So I cant say M&S  has made  an error on this point. 
Mr A1 said theyd told M&S  that Mr A1 was the cars registered  keeper but it had changed 
this to Mr A2 to reduce  the cost and get a sale. But I havent  seen any evidence  to show  this. 
Ref: DRN90926932What I have seen  is that Mr A2 completed  the online application stating that he was the cars 
registered keeper.  He then confirmed that his details hadnt  been changed when he called 
M&S to complete the purchase. In the call he also confirmed that he was the cars  regular  
user and his son, Mr A1, was the cars  named driver. The policy  documents were then 
provided online but these werent  corrected. So I think  M&S correctly passed on the 
information provided to the insurer to set up the policy and I cant see evidence that it then 
changed any of this. 
The insurer  requested the V5 and other documents to validate  the policy. M&S asked Mr A2 
for this and passed  it on but didnt note that the V5 stated  Mr A1 was the cars registered 
keeper. But I dont think M&S made  an error here as it was responding to the insurers 
request and the documents were passed to the insurer  to check.  
Following this, it was noted that the incorrect number of No Claims Discount (NCD) years for 
Mr A2 had been  provided. This was corrected and M&S wrote to Mr A2 telling him that his 
premium had reduced and provided  an updated Statement of Insurance.  In this Statement 
provided by M&S Mr A2 is shown as the cars registered keeper  and Mr A1s birth years 
1980. But Mr A1 provided an identical  document  that states that Mr A2 isnt the cars 
registered keeper.  
M&S cant explain how Mr A1 obtained the document  he produced. However,  I havent seen 
any evidence that M&S  were informed that Mr A2 wasnt the cars registered  keeper at the 
time the Statement  was issued. So, on balance, I dont think  I can reasonably  rely on the 
document Mr A1 provided.
When Mr A1 called  to make a claim,  he corrected  his year of birth to 1990. A few days  later, 
he called  M&S to change  the registered  keeper to himself. But he was then told that the 
insurer wouldnt provide  cover with him as the registered keeper. 
So I think M&S set up the policy with the information provided by Mr A2. The caller 
identifying himself as Mr A2 confirmed  in the sales call that these details  were  unchanged. I 
cant see any evidence that Mr A1 or Mr A2 contacted M&S to correct  errors in the 
information provided before a claim was made. So I cant say that M&S made any errors in 
administering the policy that led to the insurers decision to void the policy and decline the 
claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A1 and Mr A2 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9092693