K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS)  unfairly 
declined a claim under his legal expenses policy. 
background
Mr R made  a claim on his legal expenses policy to pursue action against a leaseholder and 
their tenant  in a property  of which Mr R is the freeholder. He feels the leaseholder and tenant  
have breached the terms of the lease.  
The claim was considered by DAS.  And I understand that initially there was a dispute over 
whether there was an insured event.  This was resolved and DAS appointed counsel to 
advise on the legal  merits of the case. The advice it received  was that the claim doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. So DAS has declined the claim. 
Mr R disagrees  with the legal advice. He feels its flawed  and shouldnt  be relied on. He 
wants DAS to fund a legal opinion from a barrister of his own choosing. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that, without a legal opinion  
to the contrary,  DAS is entitled to rely on the advice  from counsel. As Mr R disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  provides  cover for legal  costs provided  it is more  likely than not that his case 
will be successful   in other words, the claim must  have a 51% or above chance  of winning. 
This is a common term of legal expenses  policies and it means  insurers  dont have to meet  
costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful.  I think thats  reasonable  I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to fund a legal action that a prudent consumer would not pursue.
Id expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has a reasonable 
chance of winning.  And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless  its obviously  
wrong. Id expect the advice to be properly reasoned and have enough detail  for the insurer  
to make an informed decision on cover.
I can see DAS initially sought advice from solicitors and then from counsel who provided a 
detailed reasoned opinion as to why Mr Rs claim doesnt meet the policy  terms. Counsel 
also provided a further note following  Mr Rs concerns that the advice was flawed. From 
everything Ive seen, I cant see any reason why DAS cant rely on this advice. 
I appreciate that Mr R doesnt agree  with the advice and put forward  his reasons for this. But 
this doesnt mean its obviously  wrong. And I note that DAS referred  his comments  to the 
barrister to review, in case this changes  his opinion.  
When considering  the claim, DAS is entitled  to rely on the legal advice it has received. Its 
not for me to review  the merits of the legal dispute. My role is to consider whether DAS has 
considered the insurance claim fairly, and in line with the policy  terms, and Im satisfied it 
Ref: DRN94887812has. Should Mr R wish to challenge the decision to decline cover for his claim, he can obtain 
a legal opinion  from another barrister at his own cost. Unless he does so (or the barrister 
DAS instructed were  to change his advice)  I wouldnt  expect DAS to do anything further. So I 
dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9488781