K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1999. The policy covered Mr H only. Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide  Building 
Society mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that they had a 
choice about it. Mr and Mrs H say they were  led to believe the PPI was compulsory and that 
their mortgage application  wouldnt be successful without it. But they havent given us much 
detail about what  was said or why they felt this.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section  on PPI showing Mr H was to be covered, the type of cover  chosen and 
the monthly benefit of the policy.  Nationwide has also sent us a sample of an application 
form where the customers had chosen not to take PPI, which just says PPI hasnt been 
selected in the PPI section.
Nationwide has also sent us the mortgage  offer letter for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage, which 
shows the cost of the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  there was a discussion between Mr and 
Mrs H and Nationwide before the application  form was printed out. And that Nationwide  gave  
Mr and Mrs H a choice about  the PPI in that discussion. So I think Nationwide  did make it 
clear to Mr and Mrs H that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs H chose to 
take it, knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H any personalised advice  
about the PPI. So I dont  think  it recommended the PPI to them. This means Nationwide 
didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H. But it did have to make sure they 
got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs H have told us Mr H wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. So it would  have been  useful  for them if something went  wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Hs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection he policy offered appealing. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr and Mrs H off taking it out.
Ref: DRN99130342my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9913034