K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about Lloyds Bank  PLCs  refusal  to give her the refund she has requested.
background
In June  2018  Mrs C booked  a package  holiday  via a travel  agent,  a firm I will call 
"M". The package  holiday  included,  flights,  transfers  and accommodation  (a holiday  
apartment  in a complex  of apartments)  for Mrs C and her family.
Mrs C and her family  were  looking  forward  to a quiet  family  holiday  in a "relaxing  
atmosphere",  which  is what  she had been  promised,  she tells us, in the marketing  
material  that she'd  seen  and relied  on when  booking  the holiday.  But, according  to 
Mrs C she didn't  get that, far from it. Rather,  a number  of things  went  wrong  from her 
perspective  that meant  she didn't  get the holiday  she'd  paid for and had been  
expecting  to receive.
Mrs C complained  first to the company  that provided  and managed  the holiday  
complex,  a third-party  firm who I will call "B", but although  B agreed  to look into her 
complaint  she heard  nothing  further  from it. Dissatisfied  with the lack of response  from 
B, Mrs C complained  to Lloyds  instead.  She was able to do this because  she was 
relying  on the protection  of Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  ("Section  75") 
having  used  her Lloyds  credit  card to pay for the holiday.  Mrs C asked  Lloyds  for a full 
refund  of the entire  amount  she paid for the holiday,  £2,543.10
Lloyds  saw things  differently.  It accepted  it had provided  poor customer  service  when  
Mrs C complained  and offered  her £75 for this. That said,  it didn't  agree  it had enough  
to go on to accept  Mrs C's version  of events.  Further,  it thought  in any case,  Mrs C 
had no claim  against  either  it or M under  Section  75. It said this because  Mrs C had 
made  her payment  to M, but the apartment  had been  supplied  by B. In these  
circumstances  it suggested  that M's only obligation  to her was to pass  on her booking  
to B, and it had done  that. In other  words,  Lloyds  did not accept  that either  it or M had 
any responsibilities  in relation  to any misrepresentation  of the holiday  or any breaches  
of contract  at the holiday  resort.
Mrs C was unhappy  about  this response  from Lloyds  and came  to our service.
I took a look at Mrs Cs complaint  and I issued  a provisional  decision.  In it I said I 
intended  to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint  in part. I then went  through  my reasons  for 
coming  to this decision.
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities - in other words, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
I noted that Mrs C relies on the rights she believes she has under Section 75. I thought it 
was important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, I'm not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have  under  Section 
75. Rather, in deciding  what's a fair way to resolve Mrs C's complaint, I have to take account 
of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, I've taken it into 
Ref: DRN98066202account. But that doesn't mean I'm obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mrs C pursued  a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  Our 
service is an informal  alternative  to the courts.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the 
credit provider. So, if I thought that the holiday contract had been  misrepresented or
breached I'd say it was fair and reasonable that Lloyds  had to take responsibility for that.
I then went on to say that a misrepresentation in this context is a false  statement of fact that 
Mrs C relied on to the extent it made her enter into the contract. I realised that Mrs C tells us 
that the promise of a holiday in a relaxing atmosphere was a representation that she could 
and did rely on. But although  I thought  it likely that Mrs C did read something about the 
holiday being relaxing  in the marketing  material she read, I also thought this was marketing 
puff rather than a statement of fact. It followed I didnt agree that it was fair and reasonable 
to say there  had been a misrepresentation and Lloyds ought to take responsibility for this.
That said,  I also thought  that Mrs C was entitled to expect that the services she received at 
the resort would be delivered in a professional manner. Instead, she told us about a whole 
series of things that I thought meant this standard had not been reached. In short, she listed 
the inappropriate behaviour of the manageress on several occasions, as well as dogs 
(including the manageresss dog) being  allowed to swim in the pool and stand  on tables in 
the resorts restaurant.  Mrs C had complained whilst still on holiday, she had then followed 
this up with further complaints when she returned, her reasons for being  upset,  have 
remained consistent and have included a lot of detail. Mrs C also sent in photos that I 
thought backed up her account. I was satisfied,  for all of these reasons, on balance,  her 
version of events was likely to have  occurred.
I then turned to how to put this right. I mentioned that redress  here was not an exact science. 
I didnt agree that it would  be fair and reasonable to say Lloyds had to give Mrs C all of her 
money back. I said this because the holiday had three elements the flights, the transfers and 
the accommodation. If I agreed  to a full refund that would  be to wrongly suggests that she 
did not get any of the elements of the holiday shed  paid for. However, I did think it is likely 
Mrs C received unprofessional services  at the resort  and had a significant loss of enjoyment 
while in the apartment complex.  So, I thought  she should get a partial  refund. I didnt have 
anything to show how much she paid for each part of the holiday.  But looking at redress  in 
the round  I thought a refund of 40% of the £2,543.10 (= £1,017.24) plus interest was fair and 
reasonable. I also asked Lloyds  to pay the £75 it had offered if it had not already done  so.
I asked Mrs C and Lloyds  to respond to my provisional decision should  they want to. They 
both did. Mrs C responded by indicating she thought the refund was not enough. I took that 
to mean  she was rejecting my provisional decision.  Lloydss response  was it accepted the 
recommendation in my provisional decision.  It indicated it would refund the £1,017.24 to Mrs 
Cs credit  card account and the £75 could be paid to any account Mrs C chose.
my findings
I thank both Mrs C and Lloyds for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98066203Ive reviewed the complete file again  and revisited  my provisional decision.  It seems that the 
only issue now is the size of the redress and is it fair and reasonable. Mrs C suggests it does 
not go far enough  because she suggests  the 40% of the value of the holiday may be a bit 
low as I feel that 60% is not reasonable for flights included in a package holiday by the 
holiday company  that owns  the airline and resort.
I see Mrs Cs reasoning  but as I mentioned previously working out a fair and reasonable 
refund is not an exact science. Rather  I tried to come to a figure that reflected that Mrs C had 
not received substantially what she had paid for with regards to the holiday particularly in 
relation to the accommodation and the impact that had had on her holiday.  It was not as 
simple as merely  coming to a figure that represented  how much she has paid for the 
accommodation. 
That said,  to test how much, she might  have paid for her accommodation I did a provisional 
booking on the website for the accommodation  and the quote I got for accommodation for 
the time of year that Mrs C took her holiday was substantially less than the £1,017.24 I have 
awarded. Which rather undermines what she suggests about why the refund does not go far 
enough. Whilst I recognise Mrs C does not agree,  looking at the situation  in the round, I think  
a refund of 40% of the total cost of the holiday is fair and reasonable.
I have not been persuaded by the objection to the redress I said I intended to award  in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I have come to the same conclusions  for the same 
reasons that I set out in my provisional  decision.
Lloyds has said it intends to refund the £1.017.24 to Mrs Cs account.  But I will leave it to 
Mrs C to decide if she wants  it to do that or if she would prefer  to take the refund directly to 
another account.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must:
refund  40% of the £2,543.10 Mrs C spent on the holiday (= £1,017.24). It should also 
add interest to that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year the interest to run from 
the date the payment was made until the date of settlement.
Lloyds should  also pay Mrs C the £75 as it has already  agreed  to do if it has not 
already done so.
Lloyds must  pay the total compensation within 28 days  of the date on which Mrs C accepts
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the £75 from the date of
the final decision until the date of settlement at the rate of 8% simple  per year.
If Lloyds considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate
showing this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Ref: DRN98066204Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9806620