K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  has applied unfair 
charges when the hire purchase  agreement  through which she acquired a motor vehicle 
ended. She wants  the charges waived.
background
Ms P tells us that she acquired the vehicle in 2014  at a difficult time in her personal life. She 
says she maintained monthly payments  and several months prior to the scheduled end of 
the agreement  - in September 2018 - she applied for a further loan to finance  the lump  sum 
payment she needed  to purchase the vehicle. She says that MBFS delayed  its decision until 
November 2018  and then refused her application. As she needed a vehicle for work she 
says she had to look elsewhere and it wasnt until later in the month that she sourced a new 
finance agreement  for a vehicle with a different lender. Ms P says that she disputes the 
charges which  MBFS has applied including for the excess  hire term, missing items and 
damage to the vehicle.
MBFS told us that the vehicle had been  inspected and the damage  had been identified as 
falling outside  fair wear  and tear standards. It said it felt these charges, along  with that for 
the additional vehicle usage  were fair. But it offered to waive charges in respect of missing  
items (compressor and tyre sealant) which it said reduced the charge from £937.51 to 
£774.01
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said hed considered 
the fair wear and tear guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). He felt the damage  which had been identified  fell outside these limits 
and was properly  charged.  And he felt MBFS was entitled to charge for the additional period 
of vehicle usage beyond the end date of the agreement.
Ms P didnt agree with this outcome  and asked that an ombudsman make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms P has experienced a very difficult time in terms of her personal life. And I 
empathise with her situation and commend the way she seems to have come  through  it. I 
can see why, in these  circumstances,  shed be upset that MBFS refused her application for 
finance to make the final lump sum payment  which wouldve  enabled her to own the vehicle 
outright.
Im not able to say why MBFS refused Ms Ps application but as it doesnt  form a direct part 
of this complaint  Im not able to comment further. Im pleased to note that Ms P was later 
able to source another vehicle.
In respect of the costs related to the additional  usage of the vehicle I think its fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to make a charge  for this. Its not disputed that Ms P retained the 
vehicle beyond the scheduled termination date of 26 September 2018.  I dont  think  the 
reason for this changes things. The point is that Ms P had use of the vehicle.  So its not 
unreasonable to expect  she pays the associated costs.
Ref: DRN95674872If shed returned  it in September then presumably shed have needed  to pay the costs for a 
replacement vehicle. So either way shed still have  been faced with the expense of running a 
vehicle.
However, there appears to be a miscalculation in relation to the number of days  of excess  
use for which Ms P has been charged. MBFS confirmed the vehicle was recovered  on 13 
December 2019.  And Ive seen the collection note which  confirms  this. But the invoice for 
this excess use refers  to 86 days.  By my calculation there  are only 78 days from the 
scheduled termination date of 26 September 2018.  So MBFS needs to recalculate and 
reduce the invoice accordingly.  
Ive viewed photographs of the vehicle at the time of the inspection after collection. I think 
the damage falls outside the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. And that its fair for MBFS 
to charge for this. I see that it offered  to remove the charge for allegedly missing items (Ms P 
had denied these  were supplied with the vehicle) and thats  also fair and reasonable.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  but only to the limited extent Ive explained.  In 
other respects I find the charges made  for damage and excess  hire are fair and reasonable 
and in line with the terms of the finance  agreement.
MBFS will need to reduce the original invoice charge by £163.50 - which it already indicated 
it was willing  to do. And then it needs to recalculate  the excess hire costs taking into account 
there was only 78 days of excess hire. MBFS indicated the daily rate was £5.34  + VAT 
which would mean  the invoice  should be further  reduced by £42.72 + VAT.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only in 
part.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK 
Limited to take the following action:
Ref: DRN956748731.Remove £163.50 from charges listed for damage;
2.Recalculate the charge  for excess hire costs  and limit this to 78 days.  Reduce  the 
payment it requires from Ms P accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 27 June 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9567487