K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Connells Limited mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a mortgage in 2006.
background
In 2006, Mr N purchased  a PPI policy when he took out a regulated mortgage with Connells. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N in the event he wasnt  working because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £23.31 each month and in the event of a 
successful claim  it wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £370  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case. Ive looked at the available information with care and have decided  not to 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained  my reasons below.
 
When Mr N purchased the PPI policy, he completed a separate PPI application form. And I 
can see that he chose  the level of cover  and amount of cover  he wanted.  He signed this 
application from in March 2006. Ive also seen a copy of the signed direct debit mandate that 
he completed at the same  time to set up payment for the PPI separately from the mortgage. 
And Ive also seen the sales  documentation and the mortgage offer, both of which  explain 
that the policy was optional  and that Mr N didnt need to take any insurance through 
Connells.
So taking all these things  into account, Im satisfied that PPI was separate from the 
mortgage and taking it wasnt a condition of being granted  the mortgage. And the paperwork 
suggests that Mr N chose to purchase the policy and agreed to pay for it  so I think  that he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known  that the PPI policy  was optional.
Mr N says he felt pressured into taking the PPI policy and I accept hes given us his honest 
recollections of what happened  that day, but I dont think theres enough  evidence  to say 
Connells acted in a way to unfairly pressure him into agreeing  to the PPI.
Connells recommended  the PPI policy to Mr N. But from what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time of the sales, I think  the policy was suitable for him.
I say this because  Mr N was eligible for the policy  he met the policy rules concerning his 
age, where he were living and his employment  status. And from the information hes given 
us, I dont think he wouldve been  caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes  see 
in these types of policies   he told us he was in good health and he was employed at the 
time he were  covered. So I think he wouldve been able to make  a successful claim on the 
policy if hed needed  to.
Mr N was working at the time and he says he wouldve  received limited  sick pay from his 
employers if he were  off work  sick. But this doesnt  automatically mean  that the policy  was 
Ref: DRN90173602unsuitable. This is because were  he unable to work, the PPI was intended  to remove the 
additional pressure  of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what  would likely be a difficult  
time. And this wouldve  been particularly important because Mr N was solely  responsible for 
making the mortgage repayments.
Mr N told us he couldve relied on his parents  for help if hed need it. Although I understand 
the point hes making,  there couldve been no guarantee  his parents wouldve been able to 
help at some  unknown point in the future.
Also, the mortgage was for taken out for many  years and the PPI wouldve helped to pay the 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 12 months  for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover he had. So I dont think Mr Ns existing work benefits or savings  wouldve made 
the PPI unsuitable.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mr N.
Connells needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything  that shows what was actually  said to Mr N about this. But the PPI 
application form that Mr N completed  sets out the cost and the benefit of the policy. And the 
cost of the policy was also set out in some  of the other  mortgage  paperwork as well. So Im 
satisfied that Mr N knew there was a cost to the policy and what  that monthly cost was.
Ive explained  why I think the PPI was suitable. Given his circumstances at the time I think 
Mr N wouldve thought  the PPI gave important  cover to protect the repayments  on his home. 
And that the costs and benefits  were competitive and gave peace of mind   so I dont  think  
Mr N lost out. And as the policy was a regular  monthly premium  policy, if Mr N decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that he no longer  wanted the PPI, he couldve cancelled it 
without penalty.  
I realise that this will be a disappointment  for Mr N, but I do not think that the policy was mis-
sold to him. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9017360