K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2007. 
Mrs C says 1st Class Credit Union Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, theres some uncertainty  about the 
level of cover that the policy  offered.  I say this because theres an indication that the level of 
cover may have been accident and sickness only, as 1st Class Credit Union Limited in their 
submissions to our Service made  reference to this level of cover.  
1st Class Credit  Union Limited have since told me that at the time of sale they offered a 
choice of accident and sickness cover or accident,  sickness and unemployment cover 
(ASU)  which Mrs C was sold. However, Ive not seen any supporting  evidence  that there 
would have been a choice  between  the two levels of cover.  I say this because the paperwork 
from the sale shows two options for PPI  to accept or decline ASU. But I havent seen any 
evidence that there  would have been an option  to choose between  the level of cover. 
I also tried to contact the underwriter of this policy to definitively establish  the correct  level of 
cover, but unfortunately their records are incomplete. So, Ive considered  that in this case,  
its likely  the only level of cover available was ASU as it appears from the application form, 
that this was the only option. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think 1st Class Credit Union Limited made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs loan application. On the application 
there are two options for PPI. A tick has been placed next to the option to add PPI to 
the account to protect Mrs Cs loan repayments and Mrs C has also signed  
separately in the section  for PPI.
1st Class Credit  Union Limited  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information 1st Class Credit Union Limited gave  Mrs C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
Ref: DRN90101672dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - including  what shes  said about: 
not needing PPI due to her sick pay entitlement. But this policy would have paid out 
for up to 24 months, which is for longer than Mrs Cs sick pay would have lasted.
being advised that taking PPI would assist her application. But as Ive already said,    
I think that its more likely  than not that Mrs C was made aware that PPI was   
optional - before she chose to take it out. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs C paid on her policy  and whether 1st Class 
Credit Union Limited treated her unfairly. 
1st Class Credit  Union Limited has told us that the commission for Mrs Cs policy  was less 
than half of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how 1st Class Credit Union 
Limited has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its right    
Mrs Cs commission  was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think  
it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont think 1st Class Credit Union Limited  
treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Mrs C back any of the commission 
she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9010167