K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS") mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ts credit card account when she filled in a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss T mainly told us that her sick pay benefits  meant that she didnt need  PPI. She also told 
us that if the costs versus benefits and the policys optional nature had been  made  clear,  she 
wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken carefully into account  the reasons why Miss T thinks  the PPI was mis-sold. But 
this was a long time ago and it wouldnt be reasonable  to expect Miss T to recall exactly 
what she had in mind  at the time.  I have to look at all the available information  and the wider  
circumstances and decide what I think is most likely.  What  Miss T says now isnt enough  on 
its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
Ive seen Miss Ts completed credit card application  form. In order to have PPI she had to 
tick the application next to where  it said: YES, please protect my payments now. For this 
reason, I think the wording and layout of the form made it clear that if she hadnt  wanted PPI 
Miss T couldve  left this part of the form unticked.  And so I think RBS made Miss T aware  
that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. 
Miss T filled in a paper application sent to her at home. RBS didnt advise  Miss T to take out 
the policy. So it didnt  have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still had to make sure that 
it gave Miss T clear  enough information so she was able to make  a proper decision about 
whether PPI was right for her. And if this didnt happen, then I have to think about whether  
this made  any overall difference to Miss T.
Ive taken into account that she told us she wouldve had good sick pay entitlement.  But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay  and in full for longer than she couldve 
depended on continuing to receive  full pay from her employer - up to 12 months per claim if 
she had an accident  or she was off work  sick.
And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if Miss T lost her job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. 
Ref: DRN98238742Ive taken into account that Miss T had some savings at the time. But I dont know  if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a claim. And having the 
policy in place meant her savings werent  at risk of having to be used to pay her credit  card.  
Miss T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  this type of cover, 
knowing what her financial circumstances were  at the time. Based  on everything shes told 
us, I think that Miss T couldve  benefitted from the PPI when she took it out. And if her 
circumstances later changed, or she no longer  wanted to pay to keep the policy running, she 
wouldve been able to cancel this PPI without further cost at any time. 
Its possible some of the information  RBS gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Miss T was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So, I dont think more information  about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to her decision to take it out.  
I dont think its likely  that RBS properly explained  the policy cost, or what it might pay out if 
Miss T made  a claim. But she chose to have the policy  when she didnt have to  and 
I havent seen  anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for her when she signed up for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Miss T, I think  it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
This means  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss T.
But (if it hasnt already)  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc will pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Miss T because: 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Miss T about that. Because The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt tell Miss T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc needs to do
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc should  
also pay back to Miss T any extra interest  she paid because of that.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to 
Miss T the difference  between what Miss T owed  and what  she wouldve owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc should also pay Miss T 8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit 
card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss T can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN98238743my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But (if it hasnt already)  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc does have to pay back  to Miss T 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9823874