K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. 
Miss W says Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading as Egg at the time, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Miss W cant remember  much about  the sale of the policy, but she says it wasnt clear  the 
PPI optional. However, based  on the evidence Ive seen I think Barclays made  it clear  that 
Miss W didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember this.
I say this having seen evidence that Miss Ws credit card application was made online 
without any involvement  from a Barclays sales person during completion of the application.  
And Barclays has sent me some screen  shots  of the application  process which it says 
Miss W wouldve seen at the time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt that Miss W wouldve 
had to follow this process.  These include equally prominent yes and no options  for PPI. 
Barclays has told us that Miss W wouldnt have been able to continue onto the next screens 
without making a decision on whether or not to take out the cover. 
Ive also seen a copy of the applications  report which recorded the answers  Miss W gave 
online and this shows a Y in the box for PPI  but its likely this box wouldve had an N in it 
if Miss W had ticked no to the PPI - so I think this reflected what she wanted at the time.
As this was an internet sale and theres  no evidence Miss W spoke to anyone  from Barclays
while completing her application, I think this was a non-advised  sale. This means Barclays
didnt have to check if it was right for her but it did have to make  sure Miss W got the
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  so I think it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Miss W says the PPI wasnt of any use for her as she was entitled to six months full followed 
by six months half sick pay from her employer. The PPI policy,  however, wouldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  Miss W was unable to work and on top of her sick pay 
entitlement. So these funds  couldve been used for other expenses - and I think Miss W  
wouldve found the PPI particularly useful  if she was off work  for longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover
and, overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.  This means Barclays  doesnt have to pay
Ref: DRN91001912back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But Barclays  has paid back  some  of the cost of the
PPI to Miss W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell 
Miss W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9100191