K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  through her representative  that Bamboo  Limited  lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Miss B was given a guarantor loan of £3,000 by Bamboo in 2018. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around  £118.  The total amount payable, including 
interest was just over £7,095. I understand Miss B had difficulties repaying the loan and the 
debt was eventually  sold to a third party.
Miss B says that Bamboo didnt  carry  out proper checks to ensure the loan was affordable  
for her. Shes also complained that when  she first applied for a loan she was rejected, but 
when she applied again very shortly  afterwards, her application was accepted.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough 
information for her to fairly  say that Bamboo  shouldnt have provided Miss B with the loan. 
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment.  As  the complaint has not been settled, 
it has been passed to me to resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit  and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant  rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Bs complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't lend to Miss B 
irresponsibly.  I think there are key questions I need  to consider in order  to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular  complaint:
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss 
B was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what  would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Bamboo make a fair lending  decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way?
Bamboo was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred  to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. 
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so Bamboo had to think  about whether  
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Miss B. 
In other  words, it wasnt enough  for Bamboo to simply  think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss B. The existence  
Ref: DRN94004912of a guarantee and the potential for Bamboo to pursue the guarantor  instead of Miss B for 
the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Miss B 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Bamboo  had 
to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts,  and the borrowers overall  financial 
circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
Ive carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments  and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss B. 
Bamboo asked  Miss B for information  about her income and her contribution to her rent. 
Bamboo says it used ONS (Office  of National  Statistics) data to calculate her general  
expenditure and it acquired a credit report.  
Bamboo says the checks  it carried out before it agreed to lend to Miss B were reasonable 
and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable  for her. On the face of it, it would seem 
that Miss B had sufficient disposable  income to afford the loan. 
But Bamboo  was aware from the credit report it had acquired that Miss B already had a high 
level of indebtedness  when she applied for the loan. Bamboo might have been  prepared to 
accept this credit risk because the loan had a guarantor who was equally liable with Miss B. 
This might have given  Bamboo more confidence  that the loan repayments would be made.  
But I dont think that the existence  of the guarantor, on its own,  meant that Miss B herself 
would be able to sustainably make the repayments.  
Miss B says Bamboo  should have seen  that she had a poor credit history. There was some 
adverse information  on the credit report,  but given the type of lending,  I think its reasonable 
for a lender  to expect to see some adverse information on the borrowers  credit  report.  I also 
think it was reasonable  for Bamboo  to have considered some of the adverse information to 
be historic. 
But I do think that Miss B was applying to Bamboo  for an expensive  loan, and she had to 
maintain her repayments  every month for around five years. I think  in the circumstances, 
Bamboo ought reasonably to have realised  that for its checks  for this particular customer to 
be reasonable and proportionate,  it needed  a more in depth  understanding of her current  
financial situation - to ensure that she could  sustainably repay her loan over the extended 
loan term. I dont think the information  on Miss Bs credit report on its own ought reasonably 
to have led Bamboo to decline the loan. But I do think  that Bamboo  should have gone further 
Ref: DRN94004913with its checks on this occasion and carried out more  detailed and independent checks to 
establish Miss Bs financial  position   for example by asking  to see her bank statements.
However, from the evidence Ive seen, its not clear  to me whether better  checks  by Bamboo  
would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Miss B might have difficulty  
repaying her loan sustainably.  Miss B was asked to provide her bank statements by this 
Service, but she hasnt  been able to do so.  So, although I think  Bamboo should have done  
more to check Miss Bs financial  position  before it agreed to lend to her, I cant  fairly say that 
better checks ought reasonably to have led Bamboo to conclude  that it shouldnt lend to 
Miss B. And on the basis of the evidence given, I cant fairly  say that Bamboo lent to Miss B 
irresponsibly when it gave  her the loan.
Miss B has also complained that when she first applied for the loan, she was rejected, but 
when she applied again a short time afterwards, her application was accepted.  Bamboo says 
that Miss Bs first application  didnt  progress because  her guarantor,  who was a family 
member, wasnt  suitable  but then Miss B nominated  a different guarantor who was accepted, 
and so her application for a loan was approved.  Bamboo also says that the personal  
information that Miss B provided each time remained substantially  the same. Miss B thinks  
Bamboo relied on incorrect information  at the time, including typos, but from what Ive seen, 
Bamboo made its calculation based  on the information it received from Miss B about her 
financial circumstances plus its own verification checks. 
Miss Bs representative has told us that Miss B had poor mental health at the time and that 
she was a vulnerable consumer  when  she applied for the loan.  I am sorry that Miss B has 
experienced a very difficult time. But I havent seen anything that I thinks  shows that 
Bamboo was made  aware that Miss B might  be a vulnerable consumer at the time. So, I 
cant say that Bamboo  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably towards  her in this regard.  Bamboo  
says the loan was eventually sold to a third party in 2019 but that the total amount  repayable  
by Miss B would be capped at the amount shown in the loan agreement. So, Miss B would 
not pay any more  than she originally agreed.  Bamboo also says it asked Miss B to contact 
the third party  to arrange an affordable repayment  plan.
Overall I havent seen anything which makes  me think  that Bamboo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Miss B in some other way. And Ive not seen enough evidence for me 
to say that I think its likely  that, if Bamboo had carried  out better checks when Miss B 
applied for the loan,  it ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that it was 
inappropriate to lend to her. I know that Miss B feels strongly about her complaint and I am 
sorry that she will be disappointed by my decision.  I would like to reassure her that I carefully  
considered everything  that both she and Bamboo told us, and all the information provided. 
But having  done so, I am not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94004914
Ref: DRN9400491