K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains she wasnt given all the information she needed about the premiums for 
the whole  of life (WOL) plan she was advised to take out by Sun Life Assurance  Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (previously Laurentian Life). 
background
Mrs G took out her WOL plan in 1990 on a maximum cover basis.  The plan was subject to 
reviews, the first after 10 years and then every five years. The most recent review was in 
2017 which is what prompted Mrs G to complain.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I upheld the complaint  and in short made  the following findings:
Term  assurance is often a better option for family protection but I didnt think a WOL 
plan of itself was unsuitable in her circumstances but I did think  the type of WOL plan 
she was recommended  which was a on maximum cover basis   was unsuitable.
I didnt think it was more likely  than not that the adviser had explained clearly that it 
was very likely a premium increase would be required on first review  after 10 years at 
which point her first child would not have even reached 10 years  of age.
I thought that if this had been explained  it was more likely  than not that Mrs G 
wouldve chosen a standard cover plan.
Mrs G agreed  with my decision but Sun Life didnt. In summary it made the following points:
Mrs G has indicated she was unhappy paying  the most recent plan review premium  
increase because the increase is too high  although she has agreed to this.
The standard cover premium at outset wouldve been £42.35 which  would have 
increased to £84.70  at the 10 year point because of the automatic increase option.
Given Mrs G is unhappy about the increase to £107 in the recent  review   27 years 
after the start of the plan - it is very unlikely she wouldve been happy to pay a 
premium of £84.70  after just 10 years.
A maximum cover plan offered Mrs G a high level of cover  for a much lower  premium 
at outset compared to a standard cover plan.
Given Mrs G and Mr G were about to have their first child it was likely  they would 
have had a greater need for life cover  whilst  the child was young.
As Mrs G was on maternity leave at the time there was only Mr Gs income  and 
finances were likely to be tight at the outset but more affordable later on.
Mrs G had an indefinite need  for cover  until at least  retirement.
The plan is flexible  and the premiums and/or sum assured can be amended  within 
minimum and maximum levels.
It was common practice and part of the standard process  for an adviser to talk about  
the options with the client  including  the pros and cons of maximum cover and 
standard cover plans.  It is almost certain  the adviser did this and that Mrs G chose 
the maximum cover plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95884532I have considered the points made  by Sun Life but I am not persuaded to change  my 
decision.
I dont think Mrs Gs reaction to an unexpected increase to her premium gives  any indication  
of what wouldve happened if she had taken out a standard cover plan where she wouldve 
known the amount of initial premium and that this would double over 10 years because  she 
had chosen the automatic increase option.  I dont  agree it is the amount of premium  Mrs G is 
unhappy about but rather that she is unhappy  the premium increased  by so much  when she 
wasnt expecting this.
I dont agree that Mrs G had more need for cover whilst  her child was very young. This was 
her first child and there was no reason for the adviser to think they would not have more than 
one child. And at the first review, when  the premium was likely to increase, the child wouldnt 
have reached 10 years  of age and would still be very much a dependent.
I note the point Sun Life has made  about Mrs G being on maternity leave but Mr G was well 
paid  above the average income at the time  and in a relatively stable industry. And Im not 
persuaded that Mrs G being on maternity leave means she wouldnt have been willing  to pay 
the costs of a standard cover plan on the basis  this was less likely  to require an increase to 
the premium on review. 
I note what Sun Life has said about it being common practice  for the adviser to go through  
all options but Im not satisfied on the evidence I have seen that she was made  aware that 
the maximum cover plan was likely to fail its first review and that an increase  to the premium 
would be needed  to keep the sum assured the same. I think if Mrs G had been told this it is 
more likely, than not, she wouldnt  have chosen a maximum cover  WOL plan. 
What Sun Life should  do to put things right
Sun Life should calculate what  the premium would now be for a Standard  Cover  plan initially 
providing £120,000 of cover taken out in 1990  with automatic increases for 10 years and 
with waiver of premium option.  If Mrs G wants to continue  the plan on a Standard Cover 
basis she will have  to pay that premium  going forward  but does not have to make up any 
shortfall in premium payments to date.  Instead Sun Life will have to put whatever sum is 
necessary into the plan and reconstruct it accordingly.
Mrs G should be aware  that this wont necessarily mean a lower premium is payable  going 
forwards
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. Sun Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited has to put things right as I 
have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95884533COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs G complains she wasnt given all the information  she needed about the premiums for the whole of 
life (WOL) plan she was advised  to take out by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) 
Limited (previously Laurentian Life). 
background
Mrs G took out her WOL plan in 1990 on a maximum  cover basis. The plan was subject to reviews, 
the first after 10 years and then every five years. The most recent review was in 2017 which is what  
prompted Mrs G to complain.
Sun Life didnt uphold her complaint. It said the plan is reviewable to make sure the premiums are 
sufficient to provide the life cover required and the documents Mrs G was given at the time of sale 
explained this.
Sun Life also reviewed  whether the plan was suitable for Mrs Gs needs at the time she was advised  
to take it out and said that it was.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She said the 
plan was suitable for Mrs G who wanted family  protection and was due her first child when she was 
sold the plan. She noted Mrs G was unhappy she hadnt been told how much the premium could 
increase by on review but said that this is something that wouldnt have been known when she was 
advised to take out the plan.
Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She said that Sun Life had been allowed by the regulator, and 
us, to literally pick numbers out of the air and pay themselves fees and increase premiums at will with 
no restrictions  or supervision by the regulator.
She thought  the adjudicator had defended Sun Life and questioned  whether she had considered the 
investments made by it on her behalf or the fees it had paid itself given she now had only a £2,000 
surrender value after 28 years of paying premiums.  She said her own enquiries had shown similar 
plans with values of more than £43,000.
Mrs G also thought the adjudicator  shouldve identified her complaint as being  part of a wider issue or 
trend where plans have  been sold unfairly.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G saw an adviser, together with her husband, and the only need identified  for them  both was 
family protection. Given they were expecting their first child at the time this is perhaps not surprising. 
They were each recommended  a WOL plan providing an initial amount of cover of £120,000 but with 
automatic increases for the first 10 years which  meant the premium for Mrs G increased from £23 to 
around £46 and the cover from £120,000 to £240,000. She also opted  to have the waiver of premium 
benefit so if she was unable to pay the premium  Sun Life would cover this.
I understand why Mrs G is upset that she has been told her premium has to increase  from around £46 
to £107 and why she feels that Sun Life are just picking numbers out of the air. But this isnt what 
happens. There is an actuarial process for deciding  whether there needs to be any change to the 
premium to maintain the same level of life cover, which  takes account of various  factors.  
Ref: DRN95884534We are not actuaries and the basis on which  Sun Life has decided  to increase the premium isnt 
something we are able to look into given there is no evidence it has done anything wrong in 
increasing the premium.
Mrs G has pointed to the current surrender value  of her plan of around £2,000 after 28 years of 
paying premiums. She has also referred to other plans that she has found with a greater value.  I note 
the brochure for the WOL plan states:
The flexible  protection  plan can provide protection for your family and dependents for the whole  of 
your life, while also building up an investment value.
Given this explanation  it is perhaps not surprising  that Mrs G has pointed to the amount her plan is 
now worth. But it isnt an investment plan. It is to provide protection for her family  if she dies.  And the 
purpose of the premiums  isnt to build up a value to be paid out to her but to help pay the costs of life 
cover as they increase.  Im not persuaded  that what Sun Life invested her premiums in  its Managed  
S3 fund, a medium  risk fund  is unsuitable, based on the limited information  I have seen.
But I have considered the suitability  of the WOL plan itself and Im not satisfied  this was suitable for 
Mrs Gs identified  need  for family protection. Term assurance is often a better option for family  
protection where the cover is until the children reach 18 or 21 as the premium is set at the start of the 
plan and wont increase.  But given  she was expecting her first child, and may well have intended  to 
have other  children, and also that family  protection can be for a partner,  Im not persuaded  that a 
WOL plan as such was unsuitable. But I think the type of WOL plan she was recommended was 
unsuitable.
There are generally three different  types  of cover under  a WOL  plan, guaranteed cover,  standard 
cover and maximum cover.
Guaranteed cover  means  the premium and amount of cover is fixed  at the outset with no reviews. But 
the premium for the same amount of cover as provided  under Mrs Gs plan would be a lot higher.
Both standard cover and maximum  cover  plans are reviewable. The way a reviewable  WOL  plan 
works is that the premium  is split with part paying the costs of providing  the life cover  which 
increase with age  and the remainder being invested.  The purpose of the investment is to provide a 
pot of money which can then be used to help pay those increasing costs at some point in the future 
when the premium isnt enough to cover  the costs.  
Certain assumptions are made about the costs increasing and how the investment will perform. And 
the purpose of the reviews  is to see whether  the assumptions  were  right, and if not whether  there 
needs to be an increase  to the premium or reduction to the sum assured going forwards.  New 
assumptions are then made until the next review.
With standard cover plans the amount of the premium  invested is hopefully enough so that the 
investment part of the plan covers the increasing costs throughout the life of the insured with no 
increase to the premium necessary on review. There is no guarantee of this, but even if an increase is 
necessary it is likely to be less than for a maximum cover plan. The premium will generally be higher 
than for a maximum cover plan for the same  amount of cover, but lower than for guaranteed  cover.
With a maximum cover  plan there is a high level of cover but most  of the premium is used to pay the 
costs of that cover with only a small part being invested. This makes it very likely  that on first review  
an increase to the premium or reduction in the sum assured will be necessary.  This is acknowledged 
by Sun Life in its FRL in which it states  that at the maximum level, the benefit provided  will normally 
reduce after the 10 year policy review unless the premium is increased.  Mrs  Gs plan didnt actually 
need an increase in the premium at the 10 year review  or the subsequent two reviews. It was only in 
2017 that the review indicated she needed to increase the premium  from £46 to around £107.
Ref: DRN95884535Mrs G is unhappy about the level of increase and the fact she wasnt told how much the premium 
could increase by when the plan was sold to her. I dont think the adviser couldve told her what the 
premium would increase  by on review as it is only possible to know this once  the review has taken 
place. But I do think the adviser had to make it very clear that a premium  increase was likely  to be 
necessary on review at 10 years and on further review. And Im not persuaded this is something he 
will have made clear.  If he had done so I wouldve  expected  Mrs G to question  the suitability  of the 
plan at the time given her first child wouldnt have reached his 10th birthday  at this point.  
I think  it is unlikely that she wouldve chosen a maximum  cover plan if the adviser had made it clear 
that the premium  was likely to need to increase, possibly  significantly, on first review.  I think  if this had 
been made clear  she would,  more likely than not, have decided that a standard cover plan wouldve 
been more suitable  for her. Im mindful  her husband  was in a well paid relatively secure job at the time 
and I think it is more likely than not that the premium payable for a standard  cover WOL  plan is 
something that is likely to have been  affordable   and if the premium was too high then I think  its is 
more likely  than not they wouldve dropped  the level of cover.
What Sun Life should  do to put things right
Sun Life should calculate  what  the premium would  now be for a Standard Cover  plan initially  providing 
£120,000 of cover taken  out in 1990 with automatic increases for 10 years  and with waiver of 
premium option. If Mrs G wants to continue the plan on a Standard Cover  basis she will have to pay 
that premium going forward but does  not have to make up any shortfall in premium payments to date. 
Instead Sun Life will have to put whatever sum is necessary to reconstruct this plan accordingly.
Mrs G should  be aware that this wont necessarily  mean  a lower  premium is payable going  forwards.
 
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and instruct Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Ltd to work out what the premium would be if the plan had been set up on a Standard 
Cover basis  and to reconstruct the plan accordingly  if Mrs G agrees to pay the premium it calculates  
is payable for this going forwards.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9588453