K820x#14complaint
Miss C says MBNA  Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999  by post at the same time 
as Miss C applied for the card. It gave her accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Miss C disagreed  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss C says it was implied she had to have PPI for her credit  card application to be 
successful. She applied by post,  and theres no evidence  she spoke to anyone  from 
MBNA at the time.  Ive looked  at the form she completed,  this set out the options  to 
select or decline PPI with equal  prominence. And theres nothing on the form that I think  
could reasonably have led Miss C to think she had to take out PPI. Overall,  I think  
MBNA made it clear the PPI was optional and Miss C agreed to take it.
MBNA didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for her. 
It was up to her to decide if she needed it, bearing in mind her other  ways  to make her 
repayments if she wasnt working.
MBNA had to provide  clear, fair and not misleading information so Miss C could make 
an informed decision.  And I agree its possible the information  MBNA  gave Miss C about  
the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have been.  But Miss C wasnt  affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations so its unlikely more  information on them  wouldve have 
changed her decision. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. 
Miss C has said her employer later paid her full pay when she off sick for periods  of 
around three  months.  But that wasnt her sick pay entitlement at the time she applied  for 
the PPI and thats what I have to consider to reach a fair conclusion.  She also said 
friends would  have helped, thats  not suitable  alternative protection. Its not guaranteed 
and peoples  circumstances can change.  Miss C also sent in details of another  
insurance she held but its a life policy and offers different protection.  It wouldnt help 
with monthly credit  card repayments in the same circumstances  as PPI. So overall,  
based on her circumstances at the time of the sale and the terms of the policy,  I think its 
most likely Miss C would  have bought the policy even if better  information  had been 
provided.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Ref: DRN98812452MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss C.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9881245