K820x#14complaint
Mrs P, on behalf of herself  and the estate  of Mr P, says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The late Mr P and Mrs P took out a mortgage  in 1995 in one of the banks branches and it 
seems bought PPI at the same  time.  The bank cant find a record of them  being charged  for 
PPI before  1996,  but it says they may have had the first 12 months  free. The policy was in 
Mr Ps sole name and gave him protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. 
They paid a monthly amount for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Santander cant provide a policy  document  from the sate of the sale so Ive relied  on one 
from the nearest  date available.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she didnt  know they had PPI and it must have been required. I cant  know 
what was said in the meeting, but Ive considered Mrs Ps comments carefully.  I also 
have to take into account  how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what  she 
recalls. Santander  no longer has any of the paperwork from the PPI sale, but thats not 
surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it was. Without stronger evidence I cant  
fairly conclude that Santander  didnt make it clear the PPI was optional,  and Mr and 
Mrs P didnt agree to take it out for Mr P.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, and it doesnt seem  to have been 
unsuitable for Mr P based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to any work  benefits  Mr P had, and for up to 12 months  
for each successful claim. It would have allowed him to use any savings  to cover other 
living expenses whilst  not working.  At the time Mr and Mrs P had borrowed money over a 
long period, secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments 
could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
them if Mr P was sick, had an accident  or lost his job.
Its possible  Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed before 
deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the bank first made clear the cost or if it pointed 
out the main things the PPI didnt  cover. But Mr P doesnt  appear to have been  affected 
by any of the main exclusions. And the PPI was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind 
about buying it.
Ref: DRN91706962Overall, I dont  think Mrs P and the estate of Mr P have lost out because  of any problems 
with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9170696