K822xcomplaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way her claim for subsidence damage  under her home insurance 
was handled by AXA Insurance UK Plc
background
Mrs Es claim dates  back to 2010 when  she noticed  cracking to her property. She made a 
claim and a surveyor came out to inspect her property. She was told that the likely cause 
was coal mining and was advised to get in touch with the Coal Authority. She did so but 
wasnt happy with the progress of her claim and contacted AXA again. It agreed to deal with 
the claim and seek a contribution from the Coal Authority. Progress over the claim was slow 
 the claim against  the Coal Authority had to go to arbitration. Then as the amount awarded 
wasnt enough to cover the full cost, AXA had to negotiate with its proposed contractor.
Works were due to start in July 2015  but didnt  start for another  year because  of further 
negotiations over costs.  Mrs E initially agreed  that she would stay in her home  while the 
repairs were carried out but this proved  to be impractical and she moved out with her family. 
In January 2017 she was told she had to move  back home,  although the work wasnt  
finished. Mrs E told us in September 2017 that the external works still hadnt been 
completed. It appears that the final work  was completed in about February 2018.
Mrs E complains of long delays in getting  the work  agreed and started, then of further  delays 
in doing all the repairs. She was initially only due to be in alternative  accommodation  for 
three months, although ended up staying there for eighteen months.  During that time the 
rent payments were constantly late, and there was a delay in paying the council  tax. AXA is 
pursuing her for the deposit  for the accommodation,  which the landlord hasnt returned. And 
she continues to be pursued for outstanding  payments  owed to the surveyors and builders.
AXA has paid her £1,850 compensation because of the delays in progressing the claim and 
the issues Mrs E experienced.
On referral to this service  our investigator  found  that there had been serious delays in 
dealing with the claim and there were issues with payment  and alternative  accommodation  
which caused Mrs E anxiety and upset.  He proposed that AXA pay £3,000, including the 
amount already paid. AXA agreed to this.
Miss S wasnt happy as she didnt feel it adequately compensated her. She pointed  out that 
she was still receiving demands for payments and the landlords deposit issue  hadnt been 
sorted out.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96130232delays
Mrs E informed AXA in July 2012  that she wasnt happy with the progress the Coal Authority  
was making and asked  it to reopen  her claim. It referred the matter  to its loss adjusters  but 
no progress was made until May 2013.
The repairs  were set to start in November 2013 and end in June 2014. However it appears 
that they were  put on hold while AXA pursued  the recovery  of the costs from the Coal 
Authority. An arbitration award against  the Coal Authority was made in Mrs Es favour in 
August 2014.  AXA has said it was reasonable to leave  the damage unrepaired until the 
settlement. But I dont think this was ever explained properly to Mrs E. And Im sure the 
repairs could have  been started  once  the Coal Authority had inspected  the property. Without 
full detail of the arbitration  I dont know the full timeline, but I think there was a culpable delay 
on AXAs  part here.
The repairs  were then arranged to start in July 2015,  with anticipated  completion  in four 
months. During this time further  damage was discovered. In November 2015 the loss 
adjusters were looking at going ahead with the further repairs.  But they werent continued 
because there was an issue over payment to the contractors. This appeared to be because 
a payment had been made  for the deposit  for Miss Ss alternative accommodation. And it 
took a full eight months to agree the continuing of the repair works. AXA had agreed  to fund 
the deposit and it should have been  irrelevant  to the issue of paying the contractors. Again 
I think this caused  an unacceptable delay.
Mrs E was told she had to move back to the property in January 2016, when it should have 
been clear that it wasnt ready for her to move back  in. There were external  repairs  that 
needed to be completed and these  werent  started until September  2017, with the repairs not 
being finished until February 2018.
I think there were considerable delays in dealing  with the matter:  Whilst the matter  was 
complicated by the Coal Authoritys  liability and the arbitration award, it appears to me that 
the loss adjusters really didnt keep the repairs under control.  When  issues arose over 
further repairs and payment  they spent far too long in resolving them.
rent payments
Mrs E has advised that the rent was often missed  or paid late, causing her difficulties with 
the landlord, making her anxious  that she would be evicted. This did seem to be a problem 
and overall it was an indicator of how the costs and payments werent  properly controlled by 
the loss adjusters.
council tax
There was a delay  in paying this initially as AXA was waiting for proof. But even after that 
there was a delay  in paying it, and as a result Mrs E received a summons. This was only 
paid by AXA shortly  before  the deadline.  Again  this caused further anxiety to Mrs E.
Ref: DRN96130233moving back early
Mrs E was forced  to move back home  in January 2017.She has shown us photos of the 
state of the property, and it clearly wasnt ready. The flooring wasnt  complete and there was 
dust and rubble and builders equipment still there.  Mrs E has explained that this was a 
massive inconvenience  to her. And I think  that making her move back  to the property in such  
a state was unacceptable.
sons rent
Mrs E has explained that she was paying £100  per week for her son to stay elsewhere with a 
friend. This was because  the alternative  accommodation wasnt  big enough. She hasnt 
been repaid the money. Initially  AXA said it wouldnt pay because it wasnt agreed. But then 
the loss adjusters advised that they had agreed it. Mrs E has produced a letter signed by the 
friend, but so far hasnt  produced evidence of payments, as she said they were  made  in 
cash. But I think that if the payment  was made  every  week,  there should be a pattern of cash 
withdrawals from her bank account.  I will take into account the delays in AXA dealing  with 
this , but I think,  for the payments themselves, its reasonable for AXA to ask for further 
proof.
outstanding payments
There are outstanding payments to the builder and to a surveyor. They keep chasing these 
and have had to resort to putting the payments  to Mrs E. This again seems  to be an indicator 
of the lack of control by the loss adjusters. I will take this into account  but I cant  direct AXA 
to make the payments as it has asked for further details. If Mrs E is troubled by this again, 
she can make a further complaint to AXA which if not resolved could be referred to this 
service.
landlords deposit
Mrs E has been asked to pay this back as it was paid by AXA. It appears that the landlord  
wont repay the deposit as he says there are dilapidations and arrears of rent. AXA has 
tried to get further  details but the landlord wont deal with it as he says it is a private contract 
between him and Mrs E. On the face of it there shouldnt  be any arrears of rent but I cant  
direct AXA to pay as I dont know how much is outstanding or the reason  for it. As the 
landlord will only deal directly with Mrs E she has to, Im afraid, get in touch with the 
Landlord herself.  If she can get full details of the rent arrears and why the landlord  is 
withholding the deposit she can then pass these across to AXA to consider.
compensation
Overall I think  there were  unacceptable delays in dealing with Mrs Es claim. The overall 
impression I get is that the loss adjusters simply didnt exercise proper control over the 
claim, possibly because the Coal Authority  paid Mrs E directly  for its share of the repairs. 
The delays and the issues over the rent, other  payments and having to move  back home will 
have caused a lot of distress, anxiety  and inconvenience to Mrs E. The proposal by the 
investigator was that AXA should increase its payment for those issues  to £3,000. This 
comes within  our severe band of compensation. And whilst I appreciate that Mrs E doesnt 
feel that compensates her enough, I think in all the circumstances of the case that a total 
payment of £3,000 (a further £1,150) is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN96130234As Ive said I cant look at the outstanding  issues but if they cause more  difficulties  to Mrs E 
she will be able to complain further  to AXA about them.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay to Mrs E a further £1,150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9613023